Today is a very auspicious, very gorgeous day for all of us because remembering
this day, we can say proudly that our Shrimaraji is the greatest saint of this
earth in this era, as he was honored with the title of Jagadguru. And he was
the only person at this time who was the original Jagadguru. And not only that,
he was honored as the original Best Jagadguru. Many people ask this question
that we hear Mahaji is Jagadguru and also it is heard with his name that he is
original JagadGuru. So what is the meaning, what is the importance and what is
the meaning of Jagadguru And why is he called Original Jagadguru There are many
other Jagad Gurus. They just write Jagadguru and only with the name of Ji it's
written original Jagadguru. In the word Jagadguru, there are two words, Jagat
and Guru. Jagat means the world Gat Chati ti Jagat. This is the definition in
Sanskrit of the word Jagat means a material unit of sentient and insensient
entities which is inert, ever dynamic and full of duels, day, night, creation,
annihilation, et cetera. So this is the meaning of Jagat, the word. And what is
the meaning of Guru God realized soul who has an ability to dispel the dark of
ignorance of the material being is called Guru. The Vedas say Parikshalokan,
Karmachitan, Brahmano, Nirvedamayan, Nastikatakatena, Tadviyan, Artham, Sagur,
Mevabhi, Kach, Samit Pani, Shrotriyam, Brahmanishtham that Vigyanartham. To
know him, the supreme personality God, Guru, Bihache. One has to go to a Guru,
a spiritual master. Which spiritual Master do we have to go Any spiritual
Master or any specific spiritual Master The Vedas answer Shrotriyam
Brahmanishtham. Go to that spiritual Master who is Shrotriya and Brahmanishtha.
ShrotrIya means, the word Shrotri is made from the word Shrut and Shrut means
Vedas. So the one who has thorough knowledge of the Vedas and the scriptures is
called Shrutri. And the meaning of Brahmanishtha is the one who has seen God as
well. So Shrotri, Brahmanishta, Mahapurush. Because if our Guru is Shrotri but
he has not Seen God, then what will happen He can give us the knowledge of the
Scriptures whatever is written in the Scriptures, he can give the same
knowledge as it is to us. But when we will tread on the path of God
realization, many problems may come on the way that problems will belong to our
practical Sadhana. And because he has not realized God, that's why he would not
know the precise answer of that question which belongs to our practical
Sadhana, then what will happen Either he will mislead us or he will be quiet.
So we'll not be able to realize God if we follow only that person who is a
Shrotri, who is well acquainted with the Vedas and the scriptures. And if our
Guru is Brahmanished means he is a God relied soul. So he has all his practical
knowledge. But when we will ask any question, if we will have any doubt, we'll
ask any question. Then he will not give the answer with the references, with
the quotations of various scriptures. Then it won't seem very authentic to us,
the material beings. And he will not be able to clarify all the doubts most
efficiently as well. But if your Guru is God rely soul and not Trotri, it will
be still okay. But if your Guru is not a God realized soul, then there is no
use of such kind of Guru. So we have to have a Guru who is Shrotri Brahmanish.
So any saint who is Shrotri beings is Guru. So who is Jagadguru means such a
saint. A God realized saint who is unanimously accepted by all the scholastic
saints as the crest of all the philosophers for all the saints and scholars is
called Jagat Guru. This tradition of having a Jagat Guru started just 3000
years ago at the time of Shankarachar ji Maharaj. Why Because gradually,
especially in Kalyug, lots of impostors were becoming very prevalent and they
were showing by many kind of pretensions that we are the authentic sense.
Whatever we are saying is correct. So they were usually misleading everyone.
They were doing the wrong Prashar of unrighteous deed, claiming that this is
the right Dharma, the righteous deed. So it was hard to find out an authentic
saint to get the answer to our questions. That's why it was decided by all the
saints and scholars that we should have a Jagat Guru. So without any doubt,
anyone can go resolve all their doubts to him. So Jagatguru is the one who is
unanimously accepted master of the entire universe. In other words, even the
scholars, the saints also respect him as Guru. That is Jagadguru. Who can be
Jagadguru This question also arises that what kind of qualification should we
accomplish to become a Jagadguru and where this title is given to someone, the
title of Jagatguru. In fact, Jagadguru is not a title which could be attained
in a university or college, et cetera. In fact, what happens It happened time
to time again that when unrighteous deeds become very common and the impostors,
the so called saints, they become predominant and they mislead people very
badly. You can say, when Dharma is almost disappears from this earth, Yeda,
Yedahidharamastya, Glanir, Bhavatibharata, Abhyatanamadharamas. At that
difficult time, God himself descends on the earth in the form of his saint or
he sends his saints any power on this earth to rectify the condition of the
earth. When such kind of descended saint come on this earth and he start
propagating the true form of Dharma, then naturally whatever he speaks is very
different from the other scholars and so called saints. But they are talking
about something which is actually not correct. They are giving the quotations
of the Vedas, the quotations of Veda, Bhagavad, Gita, Ramayan. But they are
talking something else. They are giving the wrong information. Naturally, the
one who is talking about the right Dharma, it is different from all of them.
When they hear such kind of concept of the descended saints, they get agitated,
they get annoyed in him and they propagate against him that he is wrong. Don't
listen to him. But when he speaks, that is the authentic knowledge. That's why
it appeals to everyone. The public likes his lecture. When they say, when they
see that he is getting more and more popular and people don't like whatever we
say now, then being annoyed, they challenge that person for debate which is
called Shastrath, debate on the scriptures, the scriptural knowledge. Then what
happens that all other so called saints and scholars, they unite as one entity
and one that descended. So the descended saint is alone on the other side. The
challenge that any of us can ask any question on any Scripture and you have to
answer all of them. If this person who has descended to give the true knowledge
to the world, if he fails to answer in one question of any scripture, then he
would be declared to be defeated. Unauthentic person. When Shankarachary was
having this kind of Shastrath with Mandan Mishra and wife of Mandan Mishra, saw
that Mandan Mishraji is going to be completely defeated with Shankarachary,
then she came and said, I am his wife. I also have half right to speak on
behalf of him. Now I will ask you questions. Shankra Shaji allowed her. She
came. She asked something, some question on sex. Shankar Chaji was only eight
years old at that time. Ashtavarashi Dwadashe Sarvashastravit Shodashekatawan
Bhasham Dwatira Vagat. It is famous for Shankrachaji Ashtravar Shi Chaturvedi.
He had the knowledge of all the four Vedas when he was only eight years old.
Dad washe Sarvashastravit. When he was twelve years old. He had the knowledge
of all thy scriptures. Dwadashe Sarvashastravid Sholashe Katawan Bhasham. When
he was 16 years old, he wrote theses on all the scriptures. And Dwatrishe
Munirabhagad. At the age of 32 he left this world. So when he could not give
the answer, he asked that give me the time of three months, I will answer your
question. Then he went somewhere. He entered in the body of a king and knew
everything about that sexologist. And then he came back and he gave the answer.
I mean to say that they can ask any question on any scripture, any scripture at
all. And when he gives the answer to all the question, then they also submit.
Everyone knows now that his knowledge is supreme. Nobody can defeat him. And
they surrender in front of that person. In that way it becomes very apparent
that who has the true knowledge and who is not giving the true knowledge. This
is the way how someone becomes a Jagadguru. So whoever wins all the scholars of
that time he is conferred this Honorable title of Jagat Guru. The same thing
happened with Sri Maharaji also. When he saw, he went in some small Samayalan
in conventions. And he found that all the saints, they are speaking something
wrong. They are not presenting the Scriptures as it is. Then just to reveal
that what is true knowledge. Shimaraji had a convention in Chitrakot. In
Chitrakot he gave some questions. There was a questionnaire with duos of the
questions. The pair of the questions A and B question. And the question number
A and B. They were contrary to each other. Like everyone in this world is the
believer of God. B question. No one can believe God in this world. We have to
follow the philosophy of Karm to realize God. We have to do nothing to realize
God. This type of questions were given over there and nobody could solve even
one pair of question. And then Sri Maharaj, they challenged Maharaj. They said,
this questionnaire is wrong. If it is not baseless, if it is not wrong. Then I
will request Kripaluji Maharaj to come and give the answer to these questions.
Mahaji accepted their challenge and when he started giving the lectures and he
reconciled all the scriptures, he gave the answer to all the questions. Then
they were stunned on the knowledge of Sri Maharaji. Because they were surprised
that in such a small age, because Mahaji was only 32 years old, they were
thinking that we are studying only one scripture for 30, 40, 50 years. Even
then we could not attain so much knowledge of our one scripture. And how come
this young man had the knowledge of all thy scriptures And he had so much
knowledge that he can quote any scripture anywhere, whenever he needed it. How
can he memorize so many scriptures They were surprised, but there were some who
are not real scholars. They were jealous to Shrimaraji and they had a meeting.
They invited Maharaj in Kashi Vidat Parshat for Shastrath, because they had a
full confidence that although this man is very genius, his knowledge is super.
But in front of the combined knowledge of 500 scholars, he will never be able
to stand. That's why they invited him for Shastra. And when he went over there
and again they heard the knowledge of Maharaji, they realized that he's not a
human being. Because any Human being cannot Attain the knowledge of all the
Scriptures. And that knowledge was also reconciled. He was reconciling all the
Scriptures. It's very hard. It's not an easy job, because each scripture is
talking about one subject only. And the scripture emphasize on that subject
only as the authentic and correct. It means all other paths are wrong. Like
Mimansa talks only about karma. And it always emphatically say that By
Following THE rules Of Karma you can realize God. Same way the other scriptures
of knowledge. They say you have to follow the Path Of KnOwledge only. By
following the path of knowledge only you can realize God. That is the ultimate
Goal of life. Bhagavad is saYing, no, Follow the Path Of BhaKti only. Because
if will follow the path of Bhakti, this is the only path of realization of God.
Gita is saying, follow the path of Karmyoga, only you will realize God. You
will attain the ultimate goal of your life. So there are thousands of
scriptures and they're talking on one subject differently. Anyone cannot
reconcile them because they're completely different to each other. BUT
ShIMAraji reconciled all THY Scriptures. And he proved that the philosophy
written in all thy scriptures is true, it is authentic. And he also reconciled
the philosophies of previous four Jagadgurus. ThaT was more difficult tasK. BUt
he did everything. They were amazed to see the knowledge of Maharaj, the way of
presentation, the pronunciation of Sanskrit, everything was unique. That's why,
being impressed on Shrimaji, they decided to give the title of Jagadguru. But
he was not given the title of Jagadguru only. They gave him the title of Best
Jakadguru. HeRE a question arises, when it is a tradition that whoever wins in
the Shastrad is given the title of Jagadguru, Then why only Sri Maharaji was
not given the title of Jagadguru Rather, he was given the title of Best
Jagadguru, Dhanoman Jagad Guru, Tamapada, Mahar Chate. They gave this title to
Shimarajim. The question arises, then I will let you know that there was some
specific reason why they were bound to give some special title to Maharaji.
They wanted to honor him more than anyone else. The number one thing, all the
scholars said unanimously that it is true that all the previous Juga Guru were
the Ocean of Knowledge. They presented the AKME of knowledge in their subject,
like all the Jagas Gurus, selected one philosophy, and they were emphasizing on
that Philosophy only. And they were trying all the time, throughout their life,
to prove that this philosophy alone is true. They're giving full emphasis on
that philosophy only. But Shrimaraji did not do that. He did not say that this
is my philosophy, and this philosophy alone is correct. No. First of all, he
presented the gist, the meaning, the significance of the philosophies of all
the four Jagad Gurus. He explained what Shankarachary NIMbarka, Charji,
Ramanra, Charji, Madhwa Charji are saying in their Philosophy. And how come
they are authentic They are right. Nobody can refute their philosophies. He
proved it, and then he reconciled them as well. Again, he put forth his own
philosophy as well, his own view, and then he reconciled with all the
philosophies of all the four Jagadgurus. ThIs tremendous task of reconciliation
was done by Sri MAharaj. So it means, if you read Just the Philosophy of Sri
MAharaji, you don't have to read the Philosophy, you don't have to comprehend
the PhilosophIes of any other JuGadGuru or any other Scripture. Just read the
Philosophy of Sri Maharaji. And the Most amazing thing is this. All other great
philosophers, saints, sages, they wrote their Philosophy in Big Scriptures,
100,000 Verses, 50,000 verses. In that way, they made big scriptures for that.
Shimaraji wrote his philosophy Only in a small book of 300 pages. Prim RA
Siddhant Just read one book of Sri Maraji, although he has written many books
as well, in poetry form, in prose form. But you just read one book of Maharaj,
Premara Siddhant, and you will know the philosophy of all the Scriptures of all
the Jagadgurus. ThIs was never seen before. That's why they said his place is
very special. He is not like Other Jagad Gurus. He's very different from all
other Jagad Gurus. And there were some Other reasons as well. All the Jagad
Gurus, although they were also full of devotion, and they were, in fact, they
were the Incarnation of God or the powers of God. As you know, Shankara Chaji
MAharaj was the incarnation of Shankar Bhagawan, who was the Anshavatar of Sri
Krishna NiMbarka Chaji was the avatar of Sudarshan Chakra. RAMana Chaji was the
avatar of Madhava, Chaji was the avatar of Pawan. So they were all Avatar, but
most of the time in their lifetime, they were emphasizing on the knowledge
only. They choose one philosophy, and they were emphasizing on the knowledge.
Most of the time. They were propagating the same knowledge. Most of the time.
They were not paying too much attention, although they all taught Bhakti as
well. They did Bhakti, but they did not emphasize on Bhakti. Shrimaraji is the
first jagadguru who was the ocean of all kind of knowledge, but he emphasized
on Bhakti. He was giving the knowledge, but he was all the time he was
emphasizing on the practical form of Bhakti. He was giving lectures on what is
Bhakti, why Bhakti is indispensable. What are the main parts of Bhakti What is
the practical aspect of Bhakti He was giving lectures on all these important
points of Bhakti so that people would know that we have to follow the Path of
Bhakti. Why And what are the symptoms of Bhakti If I am making any progress in
my BhakTi, then what should I accomplish What are the signs of my progress in
Bhakti Shimaraji explicated all these things in a very simple language. And not
only that, if you do Bhakti, Attain Bhakti, Bhakti, the essence of Bhakti is
love, divine love. And when you have divine love, then you can see the symptoms
of divine love occurring in the body, they are called Satvik Bhao. They are
eight altogether. Stambasveda, Roman, Jahaswara, Mashuplaya, Satika, Sweda,
Romans, et cetera, et cetera. I don't have time to make the detail of it
because you should know that they are altogether eight Sattvik Bhao. And when
Kaprio Satvik Bhao are seen for a second, they come and go again and again.
They are called Bhumai Satvik Bhao. And when one or two Sattvik Bhao stay for a
while, then they are called Jwalit Satvik Bhao. When around three, four Sattvic
Bhao stay in the body, they are seen. The symptoms of those Bhao are seen in
the body. They are called Deepth Satwik Bao. When up to five Satuk Bhao are
seen in the body, they are called Deep Satuk Bhao. When six, seven or eight Sat
BhA are seen, they are called Sudheep to Sattvik Bhao and Sri Maharaj in
Maharaji's body. Most of the time, in the initial time, almost every day,
Maharaj was seen in ecstasy and a Satvik Bhao were revealing in his body.
Everybody saw it. And it also happened a couple of times when he was seen in
Sattva. That Sudhir Sattik Bhao was never seen in any saint before, except
Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, who was the Mekshav tal of Radhakrishna. And second time
it was seen only in the body of Sri Maharachi. So he was not only an
unfathomable ocean of knowledge, he was Paramacharya of Bhakti as well. And
because he was teaching what is Satvik Bha When does it reveal in the body who
can attain it People were listening to that. And Sri Maharaji was talking on
the practical aspects of devotion as well. That's why there were many devotees
of Sri Maharaji in whose body the symptoms of Satik Bhao were seen, although
they were dhumait or maximum Jwalith, but they were seen in the body of the
Sanghis as well. Here it's worth mentioning that the Sattva Bhav which were
seen in the body of Sri Maharaji and the Sattv Bhav which were seen in the
Sasangis of Maharaji, they were very different. Their level was different
because Maharaj's Sattvik Bhao belonged to the Ragatmika Bhakti. And the
Sattvik Bhao. The devotees belong to Raghanuga Bhakti. And in fact this Satik
BHA is revealed in the body of those Satsangis who have reached up to Bhavakti
or who have attained Prema Bhakti. But before that as well, by the grace of the
saint. Sometimes these BHA are seen in the body of those who are practicing
devotion. It is temporary though. Anytime they can disappear, anytime the
devotees can lose it. But sometimes they are also seen in the devotees. So
looking towards all these things, witnessing all these things, see, I'm talking
about very important topic and you are looking here and there. It's not good. I
request all of you that this is very important to hear if you are here to hear.
So please pay full attention to accomplish this knowledge. Because it was seen
the Sattik power also seen in Maharaj. That's why they were tempted to give a
title of Bhakti Yoga Rasa Vatar to Shi Maharaj. This title was also given to
him. He was reconciling all the scriptures. That why he was given the title of
Nikhil Darshana Samanvear as well. And he is the one who he spread the
philosophy of Bhakti all over the world. And the name, the most precious name
of Sri Radha. Before Sri Maharaji started his propagation of philosophy even in
India, just leave only Vrindavan. Even in India people didn't know about Rani's
glories. They didn't know about Shiradha. But now this name is spelled out by
Sri Maharaji in the entire world. He did many things like that which happened
for the first time. He himself came abroad. Any other Jagaduru did not come
abroad. He sent his Pracharaks all over the world to spread the name of
Shiradha. To let them know the true form of Bhakti, the real form of religion.
To give all this kNowledge, he sent his Picharas as well. So there were many
other things as well. We don't have time, we are running out of time. So I will
stop it right now over here. But I will let you know that because of these
specialties which were never seen in any saint or Jagadguru before, that's why
they were tempted to give the title which should be little bit higher or more
honorable than only Jagadguru. So they decided to give the title of Jagadguru
Tham to Sri Maharaji. It means the best of all the Jagadgurus. And we are very
proud to say that my Jagadguru, our Jagadguru is Jagadguru Tham. This title was
never given before to anyone and will never give it in future to anyone. Why
Because best is best. How can be somebody better than best Even if Radharani
descends herself and she also becomes Jagadguru she may be given the title of
Jagadguru Tamo Tham. But she cannot get the title of Jagadguru Tham anymore. So
our Maharaj is very special. We are proud of him. Mulia Shrima Sadguru sarkari
ki J lali la ki J radharani ki Jesus J Sri Radhi.
