So yesterday we were talking about the invitation of kashi vidvat parishat for sri maharaji. They were inviting maharaj again and again saying that we want to give you the title of jagadguru. Shrimaraji was having fun of it. Every day he was asking especially my father that should I go And he was saying that see, if you have to win, go. Otherwise be seated in home. There's no need of going anywhere. He said, how can I know that I will win or I will lose Don't try to pretend, don't try to be innocent. You know everything. If you want to win, we'll definitely win. It's up to you. Because he knew in his mind that nobody can defeat him. But he was very well acquainted with the leelas of maharaji. So he was also scared of the leelas. I don't know which leela he's going to play. If he will not win then we will feel very bad. It will look very bad. That's why he was saying again and again, if you are going, you have to win. Anyway. Eventually it was decided that shrimaraji will go. And when it was completely decided and maharaj answered the kashi vidat parishas as well, he said that yes, I am coming. After that everyday fun was people were sitting around maharaj and they were making plan when you will come here after being a jagad guru, then how should we celebrate it so different People were suggesting that different thing. Funny things and lots of fun was going on every day over there. Eventually it was decided that when he will come back we'll have a big procession right from the station, the entire city and it will end up at a big hall of government school and a big pulpit will also be made over there. Shimaraji will sit over there, he will give lecture from there and many other guests will be invited. The saints will be invited to speak from that guest. For 15 days everything was decided that how we are going to celebrate, how we are going to have the wonderful procession, this and that. And eventually the auspicious day came and maharaji left parkashi to unfold the flag of his victory at chagadguru. Everybody was very happy. Three, four people went with maharaj and all the sanghis were suggesting him. Mahaji, you are going to varanasi, but please don't stay at the place given by them. And secondly, don't take their food because they are very much jealous to you. And if they will see that they are not winning you at any cost, then they can do anything. We are very much scared of that. So please at least don't take their food. Shimaraji said, no, I will stay at the same place which will be given to me by them. And I will eat also the same food which they will give me to eat. I am not going to eat anywhere else or anything else. Mahaji went over there and then three, four people who were with shimaraji, they went to the president to inform that shimaraji has come here. Now tell me that what is the program of tomorrow Because from 8th it had to be started. Then they said that shimaraji had to speak here for ten days. Every day, one and a half hour in sanskrit. And after that, because here there are 500 scholars, they will listen to him. There are many scholars. They are the profound scholars of some particular scriptures. They will have the fathom that how deep his knowledge is in which scripture. And according to that some scholars will have debate with sri maharachi. And he has to give answer to all the question. Any scholar can ask any question on any scripture and he has to give the answer. In other words, at one side all the top class scholars will be there and on the other side sri maharaji will alone be there. And he had to give the answer to the questions of all these scholars who were the profound pundits of one particular scripture. They said okay. All of them, when they were coming from there, then they were talking to each other. Everything is okay. We know that maharaj's knowledge is unfathomable, unlimited. He can give answer to any question. There is no problem, no doubt. But there was one satsangi whose name was actually his name was kushwah. But all the satsangi used to tell him lalla babu, he was from kanpur. They were saying that. Why did you say to them that maharaji will speak in sanskrit Have you ever seen maharaj speaking in sanskrit He said no. And why did you say then He said, oh, he can do. How can he do He never spoke hindi. And let us go. When we will tell maharaji, then definitely maharaj will scold you. And we will say that you said that he can speak in sanskrit. He said, okay, I'm ready to bear it. When they went over there, nobody was having any courage to go inside the room to tell maharaj what happened. Because they were thinking that maharaj will is cold. That why did you say that I will speak in sanskrit Everybody was pushing each other. You go first. He was saying, you go first. And then maharaj saw what's the problem Come in. Then they all came there and they informed everything. And eventually they said slowly, maharaj, they said that you have to speak in sanskrit. I thought, okay. He just said like, okay. Then they said, see, I was saying that he can speak. Everything was decided next day. The program had to start from the eigth of january, from 10:00 that was the time, ten to 1130 time was given to sri maharaji to speak, to give the lecture. So all the 500 scholars were also coming. And they were also given their seat. It was a hall, it was carpeted with the white sheet. So all the scholars were given the seat. According to their seniority of herdition, they were sitting there. Almost all the scholars were double in age than sri maharaji. And their personality was also jajanti. They were old. When maharaj reached at the end, because maharaj is very punctual. So he reached just on time. As soon as he reached seeing a young man with such a ravishing personality, everyone was dazed, because maharaj was looking extremely beautiful amongst all those old aged scholars. In fact, when shri maharaji reached there, it was reminding achopai of ramayan, udith, uday giri, manchipar, raghuvar, bal patang. At the time of dhanushi agya, all the kings were there. And those kings were also with very healthy, gigantic personality. And they were aged as well. When sri ram chanji, very young, beautiful sri ram chanji appeared over there. Tulsidasji said that time it seemed like a bal surya, the small, the baby son has appeared on the mountain of udhyachar. In the same way, exactly in the same way. When amongst all those elderly scholars, shrimaraji entered the hall, he was also looking just like that, extremely beautiful amongst all of them. Then the secretary of kashi vidyat parishad was there. Rajna and shastri, rajna and kiste, they were all there. They welcomed maharaj also. And they said to sit. They made in the hall, there was a small cot and there was a sheet on that. It was carpeted and the sheet was there. So he was indicated to sit on that, to speak. And then shimaji was given some instructions. The same thing that you have to give lectures for ten days for these scholars. Because then they will see, they will just measure your knowledge on the different scriptures. You will speak here only in sanskrit. And they counted the names of around hundred scriptures, and said that whatever you will say, it should be according to all these scriptures, must not go against these scriptures. Bhaji. Was just listening everything quietly. As he was admitting everything. They took the names of all those scriptures whose specialists, the top scholars were present over there. Shimaraji agreed with everything without saying anything. And then when he was given the instruction to start his speech, then he sat down like this. He closed his eyes and sat down like this. And he started his lecture with the estuti of the bhagwat shlok which enchanted everyone immensely. And after that, when he started his speech, because maharaj, as I said, shrimaraji's personality was very weird and he was very jolly. Plus he was very naughty as well. So he was noticing that all the pandisas is thinking in their mind. There's no doubt his knowledge is extraordinary. Nobody can win him knowledge wise. But they were very confident about that thing as well. That he cannot speak in sanskrit. He has to speak one and a half hour in sanskrit. He will not be able to speak in sanskrit. They were hoping that the maharaji was smiling, reading their minds. And then shrimaraji started speaking in sanskrit. And his sanskrit was very common sanskrit. It was not high class sanskrit, but very common sanskrit. When he started speaking in simple sanskrit language, then the saints were saying, oh, yeah, he knows sanskrit. Good sanskrit. He knows sanskrit. But they were puffed up thinking that our sanskrit is much better than him. His sanskrit is very simple. He speaks sanskrit, but his sanskrit is very simple. We know much better sanskrit. And mahaji was smiling in his mind. After 10 minutes he started speaking in very classic, very literary sanskrit. Then they said, oh, his sanskrit is good. Oh, he is really good. And after that, after again 10 minutes, shimaraji started speaking in vedic sanskrit. That was most elusive for everyone. There were only few scholars who could fully understand that. What shimaraji is saying when he started speaking in vedic sanskrit. And after some time, shimaraji started another kind of know. They were so serious. They were going to see the knowledge of raji. They have to fathom the knowledge of raji. They were going to do shastrath with maharaj. And maharaj was still playing from his stage. And what he started now, firstly, he gave the introduction of all the aptagrantham. Aptagrantham means those grant which are really emanated by god himself. Any human being is not the composer of those scriptures. They are created by god himself. Like bhagavad, gita, ramayan, ramcharit, manas. They are aptagranth. So maharaj was talking about. He gave an introduction of all the aptagranth. And then he said that now I am going to prove there that there is no other scripture that harmful as the ved and gita. When mahaji said like that, everybody was startled. What is he talking about He's talking his gita. He's talking about the vedas. Is he an atheist Did we make a mistake in inviting person Probably we invited the wrong person. Because he is condemning vedas, he is condemning gita. He cannot be the right person. But when shrimaraji started speaking, then he was proving this thing with the quotations of ved and gita itself. So, because each and every point of sri maharaji was proven by ved, gita, plus bhagavat, ramayan, vedant and some uprishads as well. That's why nobody could say anything. They're bound to listen to it. There was no chance of refuting even one point of srimaraji. So they were listening to it quietly. But it was rackling in their mind that how come he can say the gita and vedas are the worst scriptures in the whole speech For one and a half hour shrimaji was criticizing veda and gita. In the last. He said, tomorrow I am going to prove there is no valuable scripture like ved and gita. They said, what kind of person is he How would he prove now Because he has already given the quotations of veda, bhagavad, gita, ramayan, vedant to prove that they are the worst scriptures. Now how would he prove that they are the best scriptures But next day, maharaji did it. And after that he reconciled the philosophies of jagadguru, the philosophies of all the scriptures, the philosophies of all the six schools of spirituality. He started doing all that. Only four lectures were done. On the fifth day, they had a meeting, all of them, all the scholars separately, they had a meeting. And the president, they asked that who of you is still thinking to have shastrath with him Everybody did like this. And they said, what is left for debate now Each and every word of this person is irrefutable. He is giving for each and every point. He is quoting ved bhagavad, gita, ramayan bhagavad. And when he quotes them, it doesn't look like there is any stress on his mind. It seems like the scriptures themselves are coming from his mouth. He says everything so easily, so swiftly. And we don't think that any human being can attain so much knowledge in one life. We are much older than him and we are trying to accomplish the knowledge of only one scripture. And so far we cannot speak that fluently, that confidently with so much command on only one scripture as he is speaking on all the scriptures. In the same way he has the command on all the scriptures equally. And this is not the knowledge of a human being. Then on the 6th day again they had a meeting. What should we do now They said, obviously nobody is ready to have shastrath with him. So we have to give the title of jagadguru to him, they said. But some of them said that, yes, it is true that we have to submit ourselves unto him. We have to admit that he is jagadguru. He is the superior most. We have to admit it. But what title are we going to give him They said, it is tradition that whoever wins the shastrad is given the title of jagadguru. So we will also give the title of jagadguru to him. But the question arise that this title was given to the previous jugadgurus as well. There's no doubt that the previous jugadgurus were also the limit of knowledge because all of them were the divine personalities. Like shankarachary was the incarnation of lord shankar. Anusha, avatar of sri krishna nimbarka. Charji was the avatar of sudarshan chakra ramana. Charji was the incarnation of madhwa. Charji was the incarnation of pawan. They were all the divine personalities and they were all the limit of knowledge. There is no doubt. But palluji maharaj is not the limit of one kind of knowledge. He is the abode of the knowledge of all the four jagadgurus. The collective knowledge of all the four jagadgurus can be seen only in maharaj. Plus, he is the parmacharya of bhakti as well. So there are so many specialties in him which are much more spirit than all the rest of all the jagad gurus. Then how can we give the same title to him as well On top of that, the most record breaking and unprecedented event is this, that it happened for the first time in history that 500 top class scholars got together at one place to have debate with one person. And all of them unanimously submitted themselves to vikripaluji maharaj without any debate. It never happened before that. Without any debate everyone is submitting to him. So it proves that he cannot be compared with the other jagad gurus. The other jagad gurus were either an incarnation of god or they were the incarnation of the powers of god. But seems that he, sri kripal ji maharaj is not avatar. He is avatari himself. All the knowledge which is given by adujagguru is emanating from him alone. It's obvious here in his lecture. So after the consent of everyone, it was decided that shrimaraji will be given the title of jagat guru tham. Best jagat guru. They said, we cannot go completely out of the tradition. We have to have the name jagadguru. But the best jagat guru will give the title of best jagadguru. For the first time in the history. It will happen. And one more thing happened on the same day. Here they were having the meeting. It was the fifth day and maharaj was staying somewhere else with his four, five people. Mahaji told them to give a telegram to pratabgar to make the to start the preparation of procession as jagadguru. They were surprised. He has to give lecture for ten days. After that shastra will start after, if he will win, only then he will be given jagad guru. Padwee, how come he is saying now to give the telegram that I have won and I'm coming as jagadguru, start all the preparations. And they said, maharaji, your lecture is not finished. You have to give. I said, go and give the telegram immediately. Nobody could say agya is agya. They gave the telegram that maharaji has become jagadguru and he's coming back soon. He gave the telegram and all this rumor is spread all over india and the people from everywhere. They started coming to pratapgarh. All the preparation started in pratapgarh. And they were thinking, the people who were living with shimaraji, they were thinking, what is going on Why maharaji is saying that his lectures are still going on. But next day, that was the 6th day, that was the 13 january. That day, after mahaji's lecture, they announced that tomorrow we will confer him the title of jagadguru and a big function will be celebrated tomorrow. Everybody was very happy. And then they came to know why maharaj was saying that give the telegram that I have become jagadguru already. So on the 7th day they celebrated. It was a very close function. Everybody was honored. All the scholars were honored and shrimaraji was honored with seven verses. When they gave the title of jagad guru to sri maharaji, they made seven verses. That happened on 6th day. When they sat together, they made seven verses which is called paddya. Prasuno pahar. Paddy means poetry, prasun means flower, upahar means gift. So they were giving the upahar the gift of seven flowers of seven verses. And in those verses there was the fifth verse in which they stated very clearly. Mini khale rathamah deshat prague nikhile pibharatamahadeshi. They said that the wisdom of shrimah exceeds the wisdom of all the scholars of india and prague. No jwala bhakti yoga, kalitam sansapitam mandalam. And he has very wisely established an organization, namely bhaktiyo dashnik mandal, dharma bhavamanisham kirtyasam vardhayan dhanyoman jagad guru tamapadai soyam samabhat. His ambition to establish true dharma on this earth is incessantly increasing with his fame. Dharma ardurina bhav manisham kirthya samambadhan. Kirthya samambadhan. This ambition is incessantly increasing every day with his fame, kirthyasamam with his fame. And we are extremely blessed to adore such a phenomenal saint as the best jagadguru. This line is saying dhanyomanya jagad guru tamapadai. Not jagad guru padai. Jagad guru tamapadai soyam samabhate. We adore him, we worship him. Giving this title, the best jagadguru. So they gave this title to maharaj. They celebrated it like anything over there. And then they also gave manuel to shimaraji. There was a list of some rules. They said, it is our tradition that when someone becomes jagadguru then they have to follow some rules. Also there are some rules for jagadgurus. So I am giving this list to him. In that list it was written, there are many rules. But I am telling you the main ones. In that list there was a rule that now on he will always give a lecture sitting on the throne. Number two, he will eat food only cooked by a brahmin. Number three, he will not visit any householder without taking dakshina less than hundred rupees. So there was this kind of few niyam for shimaraji. Maharaj put it aside because maharaj is a saint of free will. Shimaraji says, brahma cannot stop me from doing anything. Who are they Scholars. How can they bind me with the rules But maharaj didn't say anything at that time. He kept it aside and this title was given to sri maharaji. The most amazing thing was that about maharaj. When they invited maharaj. That time they had a feeling, strong feeling to defeat him. They were not the devotees of maharaj. They were not the followers of sri maharaj. They didn't have good feeling as the guru for maharaj. But within four days their mind was totally changed and it was not ordinarily changed. It was changed so much that when they were giving this paddya prasuno pahar to give the title of jagadguru tam to sri maharaji, they addressed maharaj for addressing also that the complete address for maharaji was also full of many excel titles like I think all of you know. Mostly it is read shrimad padwaka, pramanapara, pratish, tapanacharani, darshan, sarmanve, dharma pratishtapan, satsam pradha, paramacharya, bhaktiura, sadhar bhavadan, tashri, viboshi, jagad, guru, swami shikhaluchi maharaj. So there are many titles in this one as well. The first thing, just notice what was their bhavana for shrimaraji. I don't think anyone of us have such a high bhavana, such a high feeling for shrimaraji as they had the first title in this is sri makpadvakya pramana para varim padavaki praman et cetera. There are six schools of philosophy. Pad means vyakan wakwasheshik, nyai mimansa, yog and grammar. There are some pioneer who started who revealed these philosophies like vaisheshik. The philosophy of vaisheshik shastra was revealed by kannad rishi karnath. The philosophy of nyai shastra was revealed by rishi gautam. The philosophy of mimansa was revealed by rishi couple. The philosophy of sankhya was revealed by couple and the philosophy of mimansa was revealed by gemini and the grammar was revealed by paneli. They all were the ocean of knowledge. They were the ocean of the knowledge of their respective philosophies. And here they are not saying that shimarachi is the ocean of knowledge. No, he is saying here it is said for him, sri matawaka pramana para varian. There is one word in this title, variana. Varian means ocean. So the rishi, karnad, gautam, etc. They are the ocean of their respective philosophies. And shimaraji is not the ocean then para varian, the word per means beyond. He is beyond all these oceans of knowledge. There are six oceans of knowledge. Couple kannad gautam, gemini and panini etc. They are the ocean. But he is above all these oceans. In other words, just to understand it very clearly. They are the ocean. There's a limit of that knowledge. But ocean has also some fat. There is some bottom in the ocean as well. Ocean is not unlimited. And those oceans have taken knowledge from some original source. So who is the original source of all the six philosophies Sri maharaj. This is what they are saying. Maharaj's philosophers are not saying. Those pandes who invited maharaj with the feeling of hostility. Now they are giving such a high position to shrimaraji that he is the reason of all the philosophies. They have knowledge. They are the ocean of one. One school of philosophy. But shrimaraji is the origin of all these six philosophies. Para varia. He is above them. Who could be above them Who could be the origin of all kind of knowledge except god Except swam sri krishna. And the second one is vedamarga pratish tahana chariya. In kalyuk especially people forgot about the importance of the vedas. Nobody reads the vedas. Nobody knows what is written in the vedas. Then how would they know that What is the philosophy of the vedas What the vedas are saying What is the dharma depicted in the vedas They don't know anything. But when maharaj is descended on this earth and he started imparting this knowledge to everyone. And as I explained yesterday as well that whenever he gives any lecture on every point to establish, to prove each and every point he gives the quotations of ved, vedanta, ramayan, bhagavat and gita. For sure. It means he proves that if any philosophy, any siddhant is not recommended by the vedas then that cannot be authentic. So he established the vedas again on this earth. He's teaching that. That whatever you say if any philosophy is not written in the veda is not recommended by the vedas then that philosophy is no philosophy. That is wrong. So he established the vedas, the mark of veda, the path of the vedas again. That's why they gave this title to him. Vedmarg pratishtapana chari. He is the supreme acharya of establishing the path of the vedas. Nikhila, dharashana, samanvaya, acharya. I don't have to say much about it. You know that shimaraji is expert in reconciling all the philosophies. It's not an easy work because all the philosophies are contradictory to each other. If you read all the philosophies separately, you will obviously see that all the philosophies is divergent to each other. But how Shrimaraji proves that there is no difference in this philosophy. All the philosophy this way or that way. All the philosophies are saying the same thing. There is only one ultimate thing that we have to do bhakti. Devotion is the highest thing we have to do bhakti. And the essence of all the philosophies is the same. He has proven it so. Nikhila, darshana, samanvaya, acharya, sanatana, vaidik dharma, dharma, sat sam, pradhaya, paramachary, sanatana, vedic dharma. Now, the word hindu or hindu dharma is very common, very popular. Any indian who is religious claims that I am hindu because they don't know what is hindu. Shrimaraji says, there's nothing like hindu. This word came afterwards. There is nothing like hindu in our scriptures. Hindu dharma is no dharma. Sanatana dharma. The dharma of india is written only in the vedas, in the vedant, in our scriptures only. And the dharma which is written in the vedas is called sanatan dharma, eternal dharma. And that eternal dharma says god is only one who is almighty, omnipresent, all pervading, omniscient. When god is all pervading, omniscient, almighty, then why we are fighting on the name different names of god and making different kind of taking the names different kind of names of the different dharmas. Because there is only one dharma, sanatan dharma and sanatana dharma says that there is only one god and you have to worship one god only. He is the ocean of bliss. Just remember him and you will attain the ultimate goal of life. What is hindu dharma Hindu dharma is no dharma. The sanatana vaideka dharma, eternal dharma, is depicted in the vedas. And then it came in the upishas, in the puran, in the vedant, in many other scriptures as well. So he is the supreme acharya for establishing the eternal vedic dharma on this earth. Again, because sri maharaji, although he is giving the introduction of all the scriptures, you must have read or heard many speeches of sri maharaj. Almost every day we hear the speeches of sri maharaj and you will see that on every point he is giving the quotation of bhagavad, gita, ramayan, vedant and many other scriptures as well. He quotes around hundreds of scriptures. There are many scriptures which are almost disappeared. People did not even know the names of those scriptures. And sri maharaj is revealing all those scriptures in that way. He is introducing us with all thy scriptures as well. And he is telling us in that way that see, all the scriptures are saying only one thing that you have to worship god. Alo jasarvashastrani, vichariya chapuna punah, idam sunish, pannam, dio narayano, hari allah, jesavitashtani. You should see all the scriptures deeply. After turning all thy scriptures with avyas jimara says we have to worship sri krishna only. This is the gist of all thy scriptures. That's why these pandits gave the title of sanatana vedig dharma, satsam pradaya, paramacharya. On top of that, bhakti yoga rasa vatar, bhakti yoga rasa vatar, bhakti and bhakti yoga means sri krishna. Bhakti yoga ras means shiradha. The essence of bhakti yoga, the essence of love is sri radha the bhakti yoga rasa vatar. He is the avatar of bhakti yoga ras. Not bhakti, not bhakti. Yogna. He is the incarnation of bhakti yoga ras, shiradharani, saptar. This is all said by the scholars of kashi. So we should know all about all these things about shrimaraji. Maharaji is our guru and we are following the path of sri maharaj. Maharaj is giving the guideline and we are trying our best to follow that. We should know also that who is sri maharaj and whatever maharaj is saying is so authentic. You can go through all my scriptures, read them very minutely, deeply. You will find only one thing that we have to worship sri krishna. And sri maharaji also revealed it that worshipping sri krishna means that all the time you have to remember the name, the pastimes, the attributes, the ports and his saints all the time. All the time. Why all the time Because if 1 second goes, if we give in only 1 minute to this material world, this material world is made of maya. It means we are taking it from the very pure ocean of bliss and dipping it in the filth of maya. That's why maharaj says that this is the only thing whenever we will learn this thing that we have to remember sri radhakrishna all the time. All the time. We don't have to go anywhere for that. He's sitting inside our heart. Just think that he's sitting all the time. Keep on thinking. He's sitting here. He's always with me. He is mine. He cannot leave me even for a second. No matter where I go, what I do, even if I'm a bad person, even if I go to hell, god is not going to leave me. We forget about him when we are enjoying the material things. We forget about god. We forget about guru. But he cannot. When we are enjoying the material matters. That time also, if any problem comes on us, god and guru, they immediately appear in any form to help us. Because they are always with us. They are our real well wisher. We should know only that sri maharaji was given the title of jagad gurutam for the first time in the history. Before that, four more saints were given the title of jagat guru. But shrimaji became jagat guru. Tham means the best jagadguru. And I want you one more thing to do. Because maharaj is your guru and you love him and you want to increase love and respect for shrimaraji. I want you. Maharaj was given the title in seven verses. I don't want you to recite all the seven verses. But I want you to memorize at least one verse which is saying that shri maharaji was given the title of jagad guru tam. So I am going to recite it and you will repeat after me. And after that I want you to memorize it forever. Read it, recite it every day. Because we are proud of our guru. Nobody has on this earth such a great privilege, whose jagadguru is so great, so phenomenal as our maharachi's, as min bolina nikhil maha bharat maha deshe. Deshe visholasat vish yay nas mini kile deshe visholasat. Deshe vishalasat prague no jwala prague bhakti yoga kalitam. Bhakti yoga kalitam son tam santam mandalam. Mandalam prague kalitam prague bhakti yoga kalitam san mandalam sant manisham kirta samam varadhayan kirtyasam. Varadhayan kirtyasam. Varadhayan kirtyasam dhanyomanya yomanya jagad guru tamapada. Jagad guru tamapada. Dhanyomanya jagad guru tamapada. Jagad guru tam soyam so yam samabh on him.