The Kavani introduction of such a divine personality, especially for a material
being is almost impossible. Shimaha ji is such a great personality that by the
grace of Shrimaraji many so called scholars are getting the peace of mind and
the right direction towards the knowledge is a veritable form of love and
perpetual fountain of Bhakti Ras who can describe anything correctly about him.
Rather, I don't hesitate to say that even if Maharaj is here and if he wanted
to say something about him, I can challenge that he cannot introduce him fully
himself as well. Why Because the introduction of a divine personality cannot be
given in material words and divine words cannot be comprehended by us. That's
why it is impossible to give the right introduction of such kind of great
personalities. Even then you are very eager. All the loving devotees of Raji
are always eager to hear something about Raji and me too. Although whatever I
know about Maharaj is not even a drop. But still, whatever I know I am also
always eager to share with his living devotees and that's why I am here. I have
given one more series of Maharaj's introduction in LA and all of you heard that
one also. I think it created more intensity in your desire of listening towards
to the stories of Raji because each and every pastime of Raji is a picture of
intoxicating natural. So everybody wants to lie, everyone wants to hear about
Shimaraji's episodes. So now, today I am starting from 1950 519 55 was also a
very important year in this incarnation of Shimaraji. There was a devotee who
was living in Kanpur and his name was Hanuman Prasad sit. Generally all the
Sasangis were telling they were pronouncing his name as Hanuman sit. He was a
very strong devotee of Sri Maharaji but his love for Maharaji was with
Sakhibha. He was living with Maharaj like a charm all the time. Wherever he was
going to meet Maharaji it was predecided that he will sleep in the room of
Maharaji only and Maharaji could never deny him. He was sleeping in the room of
Maharachi. So in 1955 he desired to have a Sadhana Shivir in his home. His home
was very big in Kanpur. Mahaji accepted it. That was the first Sadhana Shivir.
When the Sadhana Shivir was going on, Sharad Poonma also came up because it was
the month of October. So when Seth came to know that the same day, the day of
Sharath Poonima is the parents day of Shimaraji also, he was very happy, and he
said to Maharaj that I will celebrate your birthday as a very authenticious
occasion. It was the first time when Maharaji's birthday was celebrated, when
the Sharad Punu was celebrated as the birthday of Maharaj. So he made lots of
preparation, imitiously ordered to decorate the entire house with light
decorations and the flower decoration, artificial flower decoration and
everything. And many devotees from all the cities, many devotees were already
attending the Sadna Shiva. But after listening to this message that Maharaji's
birthday is being celebrated over there, many other great devotees who were
very prominent at that time, all of them came, namely from Lakshma Sarobji.
Bhatnagar came from Mathura, Dr. Prahaladna and Mathur came. Jani Bhaiji was
there, Bhakar Baba was there, my father, Mr. Mahabhani was there. Many devotees
came over there to celebrate Maharaji's birthday around that very day. First
time it happened like he arranged. Scriptures rule from morning till night. So
in the morning he ordered to make very good breakfast. So Kachori and Alu and
Jelly bee, etc. Was made. And Maharaj also came over there. When people were
having the breakfast, Maharaji came over there and instead of eating from his
own plate, was trying to snatch from his plate her plate. And people were
running around because they didn't want to have the parts of their own plate,
because they were eating already. So they didn't want to take Maharaj anything
from their plate. So they were running here and there, and Maharaj was forcibly
snatching morsels from the plates of others. It was also a great fun at the
time of breakfast. And after that, Harman Prasadji requested Sri Maharaj to
come towards another open area which was specially decorated. There was a
canopy, the beautiful canopy was made, and Mahaji came over there. And in the
center of the canopy there was a big Thal, and in the center of the Big Thal
there was a small stool, and Mahaji sat down over there. And then, first of
all, they all did Ubutan on Maharaj. Uptan is a kind of paste made of turmeric
and basin and sandalwood powder, et cetera. It is to cleanse the skin deeply.
So Uptan was given to Shrimaraji, and all the Sasangis were singing bhajans and
dancing, and they were enjoying a lot because first time they were celebrating
the birthday of Shrimaraji. And after finishing the Obatan program, Abhishek
was already prepared. So he was given the Abhishek of the sweet like Mishri and
honey curd and perfume, et cetera. And there was, he was not a real devotee,
but he was coming in the home every day in the satsang. His name was
Tapeshwari. He was a very famous Pandit. He was famous for his ritualistic
performances. And people considered him as a very great scholar of the Vedas
and Veda Mantras, etc. As well. So he was coming in Satsang almost every day.
So when Abhishek was given to Sri Maharaji, he was reciting the Veda mantras.
When he was reciting the Veda mantras, Maharaji was looking towards her and
laughing. He was thinking his mind that I am reciting the Veda mantra so
correctly and it's so nicely, why Maharaj is laughing Why is he looking towards
me sarcastically And then when everything was finished, then Maharaj said, then
he thought he is admiring me. But other people said Maharaj was saying it
because your Ved mantras were not correct. Then when he came to Maharaj, then
Maharaj said, if you were reciting VeD mantras at least you had to pronounce it
correctly. He felt very much insulted because nobody said to him like that.
Everybody was considering him as a very great scholar. And first time it
happened because he was thinking in his mind. Maharaj does not know Sanskrit.
Maharaj does Kirtan very good. He is a very good devotee. He's a high class
devotee, but he is not a scholar. He does not know ABC of Veda, Shastra, etc.
He was thinking like that. But when Maharaj found a mistake in his then he
thought that whatever his comment is, that is wrong. And that day when the
kirtan was after that everything, lunch and dinner, everything was arranged
very well. And in the evening, the very good Sankirtan went on that time. Good
Sankirtan means Sankitan filled with tears. Only 60 70 people. The maximum
number of the people, the devotees was to be 60 70. But each and every devotee
was crying like anything. That time the devotees were crying. That is also
something very special. And I didn't see it later on, anytime as they used to
cry because they were crying and very loudly. Sometimes they were fracturing on
the floor just like the fish out of the water. And sometimes people were just
falling off on the floor being unconscious. It was a very whoever, if new
person was coming over there, they were running out from there. What kind of
Ketan is this Everybody is crying, somebody is falling off, being unconscious
and somebody is crying loudly. What is that So this type of ketan went on. And
Maharaj first time Maharaj gave a lecture also Maharaj was not giving lecture
at that time. He was just doing Keertan. If people were insisting too much.
Mahaji speak on this point. Mahaji gave a lecture on this thing. Then Maharaji
was sitting like that, closing his eyes. And he was sitting like that. Then he
was talking on that topic for seven, eight, 9 hours. People were sleeping. They
were coming back from their home. Maharaj's lecture was continuous because he
was talking like that. And nobody could understand what Maharaj is saying. That
night as well, Shri Maharaj spoke about the importance of Sharad Purnma. But by
the way, the lecture was not too long. He spoke only for 2 hours on Sharad
Punuma. Then because he was talking about the importance of Sharad Punuma. The
topic of Maharas. Naturally the topic of RadharanI also came up. He talked
about Rani as well. So because the Pandit was not happy and he was thinking,
Maharaj is not a scholar. He doesn't know anything about the scriptures. That's
why after that asked Maharaj. After listening to that lecture, he asked
Maharaj, Maharaj in Bhagavad, the name of Radharani is not taken even once.
While the names of many kings, demons, etc. Is taken over there. But there is
no name of Shiradharani. That's why I only believe in Sri Krishna. This was his
question. And Maharaji simply answered in one sentence. He said, if you have
belief in Sri Krishna, then why do you think about anything else or anyone else
That's enough. Your trust in Sri Krishna is enough. You are not supposed to
believe in any other thing. And after saying that, Maharaj went from there.
Then he said to Harman sait. He said, Maharaj's answer was not perfect. I was
expecting a good answer from Maharaj. And he just said that if you have a
belief in Sri Krishna, then that's all. Everything is okay. This is not the
answer of my question. Then Sage said, Don't worry, you can ask the same
question again. Probably he was not in mood of giving the answer of this
question. You can ask again. When he was telling this to was indicating that he
does not know the answer. That's why he put it off like this. And Hanuman said,
had a full confidence that Maharaj knows everything is omniscient. Why can you
not give this answer So he said, you can ask the same question again. And then
next day the Peshri was not there. The Pandit was not there. But Hanman said,
ask the same question to Mahaji. And Mahaji didn't give any answer. He ignored
it. Then in the evening, he asked the same question again. Mahaji ignored it
again. Then next day, when Maharaji was sitting in the hall, in the Keertan
hall with all the devotees, Hanuman Seth was also sitting near Sri Maharaj.
Then Maharaj asked him all of a sudden, Hanuman, what were you asking yesterday
Then he repeated the same question of the Peshwariji. And then Maharaji sat
down like this, and he started giving the answer. He spoke on Radha Tattva that
day, Radha Tattva here, Maharaj started giving the answer. He started talking
on Radha Tattva and Tapeshwaraji and his friend. They were sitting in their
house. They felt so much restlessness, like they were thinking that I should
immediately go to Maharaji. They could not stay over there even for a second,
and they were desperate to see Maharaji. Immediately they came over there. When
they reached there, 2 hours lecture had gone already. But Maharaj was still
speaking on Radha Tattva. They stayed over there. Maharaj spoke for three more
hours on Radha Tattva. He was stern to listen to the lecture of Maharaji. He
was giving the answer of each and every question of the Pandita, Peshwariji and
his friend. Whatever they had in their mind, they were getting very clear
answer of all the questions. And Sri Maharaji was talking about Shrini so
highly, so clearly that there was no doubt. And that time he realized that I
was so wrong. I thought, Maharaj does not have the knowledge of the scriptures.
He just drew Kirtan. He's a very high class devotee only, that's all. But he is
genius. His answer was stunning. Since then, he and his friend both, they
became the devotees of Maharaj. Before this, he had no faith in Shrimaji was
coming over there. But he was not a good devotee of Maharaj. After that, he
became a very good devotee of Shimaraji. In the same house there was a brother
of Hanuman Seth also. Hanuman Seth was a very good devotee. He was totally
dedicated to Rajya. But his brother was an atheist. He didn't have any belief
in any saints. And he was always warning his brother as well, that why do you
trust these Babas They are fraud. One day they will befool you. They will take
everything from you and they will run away. Don't trust them. This Baba is not
authentic. He was seeing Maharaj, Maharaj's living was very simple. He was not
wearing even the attire of the saints he was wearing. Mostly he was wearing the
white clothes or whatever people were giving to wear. Sometimes he was wearing
the shirt, sometimes the kurta, sometimes just T shirt. Whatever the people
were giving to him, he was not having anything with him. Wherever he was going,
people were giving the things to use, he was using and leaving over there and
coming back. His hair were also short like the other men. And in his routine,
there was no place of any kind of yaggy or puja or part, et cetera. He was
doing other kirtan many times in the day. He was going in ecstasy and he was
very naughty. All the time he was teasing someone or doing something which was
a very naughty action of Shrimahji. That's why he couldn't understand that he
could also be a great saint. Those, although Maharaj's actions, his behavior,
his appearance, nothing like was a saint. But his personality, his personality
was so fascinating and his state of ecstasy. When he was going in the state of
ecstasy, that these two things were attracting the people, and especially most
of the time when he was going on in ecstasy and he was dancing in ecstasy, that
was the strongest point to believe that he is a divine personality. The people
were running after Shrimaraji like the honeybees. And Mahaji was extremely, he
was looking extremely beautiful as well. Whenever I say that Maharaji was
looking very beautiful at that time, many devotees think, is DDJ crazy Maharaji
still looks very beautiful. Why She's saying, that time he was looking very
beautiful. But if you had seen him at that time, then you can compare, because
that time Aji was young, his complexion was very fair and everything was
extremely beautiful. He was having the pan and his lips were always red. On the
day of Sharad Purnima. Also, when Hanuman Prashadji gave him a set of golden
silken clothes, the golden kurta and dhoti and Dupata, and that was more
shimmering with some decoration on their shining piping, on the sari and kurta
and Dupata as well. And after wearing the kurta and Dothi, Sri Maharaji tied
the dupata on his waist that time. You can't imagine how beautiful he was
looking at that time. Just imagine the fascinating personality of Raji, the
Radiance, the smile, and on top of that, his swaying gate and everything.
Whoever was seeing towards Maharaji, they were extremely tempted to sacrifice
themselves. She was looking so beautiful and so attractive. Haraji's attraction
was increasing day by day. I agree with that. At this time also, up to the last
moment of life, he was more and more attractive, was looking more attractive.
More People were attracted towards Maharaj. But I'm just comparing the physical
beauty that was added with that attraction. That's why MAharaj was looking more
fascinating. So everything was there. But the brother of Hanmahan said,
probably his good Sanskrit were not awakened. That's why he was not attracted.
And he had a good interaction with many merchants and opulent people. There was
an association of merchants, and they were very opulent. So he was meeting them
also and talking against Maharaj to them and trying to convince them to oppose
and don't let him live over here. Convince my brother that he should not keep
this saint. He is not real saint, he is fake. He wanted to convince them in
that way. So all of them, all those friends who were upland merchants, they
decided to let down Shimaraji to prove that he is not an authentic saint. They
decided to invite very famous scholars of Kashmir. There were four scholars in
Kashmir. They were very much renowned for their knowledge of the Vedas. And one
of them was the leader of all the scholars. And it was famous for him that
nobody can defeat him on this earth. In scriptural debate, that is Shastrad
debate on the scriptures, nobody can defeat him. They invited those scholars,
the scholars came there. HanWan Said, his brother and some other people who
invited those scholars, they all came together to Maharaj. MAhARAji was sitting
in the hall with his devotees. The scholars were having BIG Turban, BIG TILak,
and their personalities were also gigantic. And the head of the scholars was
having more bigger turban and tilak. And he was fat and tall. Maharaj was
looking like a child in front of them. And Maharaj was having neither Tilak nor
Turban, nothing at all. He was looking like an ordinary boy sitting over there.
When he came, he sat down like this. And Herman told Maharaj, Mahaji, they are
the renowned pundits of Kashmir. They came here and they want to talk to you on
the scriptures in Sanskrit. Would you like to converse with them Chivai said,
okay. But all devotees, including Hanman, said they were worried because they
all thought, yes, Maharaj is a very divine personality, but he has no knowledge
of the scriptures. He cannot speak in Sanskrit. And these Pandits want to speak
in Sanskrit only. How would Maharaj speak in Sanskrit And they are the great
Pandits. If they will argue about something, then Maharaj would not be able to
give answer to them. They loved Maharaj so much. They don't want Maharaj to be
defeated. That's why they were scared. They didn't want Maharaj to speak with
them. But Maharaj was simply ready. And when everybody sat down and then the
Pandit asked Maharaj in Sanskrit that Can I ask you something He was sitting
like that, can I ask you something Mahaji smiled looking towards him
sarcastically as if a mouse is challenging an elephant to fight. When Mahaji
smiled, he was angry like he is not scared. I am such a great scholar and I'm
challenging him. He is not scared at all. Rather he is smiling. Then he recited
a mantra of the Vedas, Sapariyaga, Chukramakai, Mambrena, Masnavi, Ramshud,
Dhamapapa, Vidam, Kavir, Manishi, Paribhuhu, Swayambhu. This mantra was recited
by him and he said to Maharaji to elaborate it in Sanskrit. Maharaj sat down
like this for 1 minute. And then he started telling him, this is the 8th month
of Isha Vasyop Nishat. And then he talked about couple of mantras. Before this
mantra means 6th and 7th month. And he also referred the two months after that
means 9th and 10th month. He elaborated them in Sanskrit very clearly. They
were stunned to hear the elaboration of those mantras. And after that he said,
you told me to elaborate this month the mantra number eight. But before you
were asking me to elaborate this mantra, at least you had to pronounce it
correctly. Then he said what He felt very much insulted. He thought I am the
most correct person. Everybody accepted and he's saying that you were supposed
to pronounce it correctly. He said, what are your. What mistake did I do Then
Maharaji said, altogether there were 14 mistakes in one hymn. 14 mistakes. Then
he counted nine mistakes which were connected to the pronunciation of the
letters in Sanskrit language. Sanskrit language is a very scientific language.
And in this language there is a rule of pronouncing each and every letter. We
pronounce the letters according to our wish, according to our style. That is
wrong. We speak Hindi Kaka. That is wrong. According to the science of Sanskrit
Pronunciation, there's few letters which has to be pronounced from the throat
only like K. There are some letters which should be pronounced with the help of
the teeth. J There are some letters who must be pronounced with the help of the
lips like Pa. There are some letters which are pronounced by heart like. But he
didn't know this rule. He was pronouncing wrongly. And Maharaji proved with the
Vedic hymns that how they were wrong. And after that he started counting the
other mistakes of music. In each mantra there is a music as well. Each mantra
is recited in different kind of music. And the sign of the music is also
mentioned in that hymn. Like there are some standing line or under the letter
there is a line or some dot is there. There are some signs of music. So they
are pronounced differently like Sapariyaga, Chukramakaya, Mabrana, Masnaviram,
Shaddhamapidham, Purusha Bhutam Yachamita, Prasy Shano Yadan Nero Hathi. All
the mantras are sung in a different tune. And the music of these mantras is
written in Samveda. So one is supposed to pronounce the mantra with the same
exact music. And Maharaji mentioned all his mistakes in each word. He said, you
were mistaking that music also in each word. And then he mentioned those
mistakes which completely devastated the Yajman as well. When he heard that he
was really nervous. He was completely nervous. His condition was so ridiculous
that all the Sasangis were laughing, looking towards him that he came like
this. And now he was like this. And he was thinking what happened Because he
was worried about himself that what will happen to me I was speaking so
incorrect. And then eventually what he did, he took off his turban, put at the
loot's feet of Sri Malaji. And he was begging for the pardon. He was crying
literally. He was crying loudly and he could not say even a word except saying
Chamasva, Prabhu, Chamasva. Please excuse me, pardon me. He was saying only
that Chamasva, Prabhu, Chamasva. Looking at his head pundit, other three
Pandits also did the same thing. And then what to say of his brother and other
people who came in support of those pundits, they were also ashamed and they
also begged Pardon Mahaji. And since then, all his brother and all those people
and the Pandish, they all surrendered themselves to Maharaj. And his brother
also became a good Satsangi of Sri Maharaji. One more thing happened in that
Sadhana program. It was a good experience of a Sadhak. There was a Sasangi, his
name was Ram Baba. Actually Ram Baba was living long time ago. He was living in
Prathapkar and he was hanging a Baja, a harmonium in his neck and singing
Bhajan on the streets. So people were sometimes some people were inviting him
in their home and telling him to sing Sambhajan. And they were giving a small
amount of money to him in that way. He was living once Maharaj was sitting in
the veranda and he was going from that street singing some Bhajan Maharaji
called him, he came there and Maharaj said to him to sing a couple of Bhajans.
And then Maharaj behaved with him like a friend and he said that go after
having lunch. So from that day he became like a Sasangi of Maharaj and he
started living in my home all the time he was living over there and doing
Keertan a lot. Later on he settled at the bank of the Ganges river in Prayad.
But before that he was living there. So he was also there in the Sadhana
program. Once Maharaji told him sit down out of my room and don't let anybody
come. No matter who is that, don't let anybody come in my room. He was sitting
there, he was a very simple guy, actually he was sitting there. All of a sudden
a very fat lady came and he entered very fast when he was trying to stop her.
Then another lady and a man also went inside the room. Now he was very much
scared. He was thinking oh my God, I could not stop them. And they reached in
the room of Shrimaraji and Maharaj will scold me and punish me for sure for
this defiance. And then after that Mahaji didn't say for a long time. After 1
hour Shrimaji called him in his room. Now he was thinking he was very much
scared. Mahaji will scold me for sure and he will give me a big punishment for
that. But Maharaj told him that you have to go to Ilhabad with four boxes of
photos today. He said okay. He thought he was thinking in his mind what a
punishment. Punishment is also in the form of Seva. He's so innocent, he
doesn't know that he was not punishing me, he's rewarding me because he is
giving me Seva. So he was very happy and ink came out. Then Harma Sait said he
called a ricksha and he told him to sit down in the ricksha. He sat down in the
rickshaw and then four big boxes were kept in front of him. He could hardly see
what is in front. He could not see anything because the boxes were kept in
front of him. Somehow he reached over there and Hanman said then you reach
station and my son is coming by motorcycle and he will buy a ticket for you for
Lahabad and he will also buy the ticket for this extra luggage. He said okay.
But he went over there and was waiting and waiting. Nobody came there he had no
ticket for himself. He had no ticket for the luggage. And then four coolies,
the portraits came over there and they took his boxes and said let's go, your
train will. Otherwise you will miss the train. And said listen to me, I have no
money to give to you, I have no ticket. Said we have no time to listen to all
this. You just follow me. Come behind me. And he followed them and the train
was jampacked. There was no place even to stand. Those porters took him in the
last bogey that was the bogey of guard. He put all the four boxes in the bogey
of the guard and told him to sit at the corner. He sat down at the corner and
he was thinking why I'm sitting over here. What is this This is not the kind of
ordinary bogey. Then the guard came with green and red flags. Then he thought
oh my God, this is the bogey of the guard. And he will immediately say get out
from here. But he didn't say rather he was busy with his corresponding work.
But he was still scared. When he will finish his work he will definitely tell
me that why are you sitting here Then he will throw me out. Every station. When
the train was stopping he was scared of God. He will say, you go from here. But
he didn't say anything. He was saying just save me. He was saying like that in
the wine and sitting in the same bogey of guard. When he reached Allahabad then
he was again scared. What would I do now Neither I have ticket for myself nor I
have the ticket for the luggage. What would I do But as soon as the train
stopped there again the four porters came over there. They took his luggage and
said follow me. He was trying to make them understand. Listen to me, I have no
ticket. I have no ticket for myself. I have no ticket for this luggage. How
would you take me out of the gate They said don't worry, you just follow me. He
said I have no ticket. How would I go out of the gate Said don't worry, follow
me. And when he reached the main gate from where he had to go out of the
station he was scared again. But by the way, the TT was busy with some other
traveler and all the police. And he went out of the gate without any problem.
And then when he reached home without any money then he realized that we always
use our mind. That's why our life becomes miserable. The best thing is do not
use your mind. When Guru gives any order without any if and. But just follow.
Know the gurus, God. They always say that Yogak Shimam Vaham Miham. If you want
to see that, just surrender your mind without using your intellect. Only then
you can see the real form of that in the same Sadhana Bhavan. Sorry. Sadhana
Shivir of 1955. One more thing happened that Shimaraji started edifying four
people as Pracharak. Priyashanji Prakashanandji and Usha Seit. Usha seat became
Rishdevi Prakashanji Predarshiji. They all were given some education. For
Pracharak it also happened for the first time. So this was the importance of
only one Sadhana Shiva which happened in the house of Hanuman seat. There's one
more most important incident which happened in 1955 itself. What The time I
think I should start that since tomorrow because it's a long and very
interesting event. So today I will finish right over here. Tomorrow I will
start from there. Mulia Shrimat Satguru Sarkari ki j La luki Jesus ji.
