Yesterday I was describing some most important events in the life of Sri Maharaji. There is one more important event of the same year, which I can say that is the harbinger of the future plan of in this incarnation, as we know, it's very simple that the main mission of Sri Maharaji was Jiva Kalyar. He descended on this earth only to deliver the laymen, the material beings, and to teach them what is the ultimate goal of her life. So this event was the initial part of his future plans. It means his work of Jeev Kalyan en masses starts from here. His plan starts from here. Actually, what happened Sri Maharaji was invited in few conventions. The small conventions, they were happening in Ayodhya, in Kashi, in Kataka, etc. Few Mahatmas were coming over there. And in that even Shrimah ji was also invited when he went on those small conventions, listened to the lectures of other saints. Then he found that there is no one who is describing our scriptures as it is. They were quoting the verses of Gita, Ramayan, Bhagavat, etc. But they were making the interpretation of all those verses whimsically, according to their own choice. They were talking about the good conduct behavior, about the problems, family problems, and many other worldly things. But they were giving the senses of our scriptures. And the innocent people did not know the meaning of those verses. That's why they were trusting them. And in that way, they were also more confused. For example, once you, Maharaj, came from Ayodhya, a small convention was going over there, and Maharaj was talking about a very ridiculous thing. He said, now on, I will never go in any Melan because people are talking absolute like this. Then he gave the example. He said that there was a famous saint of Ramayan came over there, and he was elaborating one Chopai, the verse of Ramayan, Koti Kotimoni, Yatanakarahi Antaramahi. The simple meaning of this Chopai of Raman is the great, great Munis. They are trying for hundreds and thousands of lives to say ram at the time of death, but they cannot do it. But the Pandit elaborated it in some other way. What did he say He said the meaning of this Chapai, that once Asadhu came in the house of a householder in the nighttime, he heard the sound that somebody has come in my house and he is going to stay over here. Then he asked him, court, you go. The line is court Imuni Yutanakarai. And he's saying, then he asked court to go. Who has come over here to stay And the Muni answered, Timuni. My name is Timuni. Then he says, Yatana, no, I cannot allow you to stay over here. Yatana, go somewhere else. Then the Muni answered, Karahi. Shera, forget about it. I am not going anywhere. Bring Karahi means make Puris for me. I am hungry. I am Muni and you are supposed to feed me. So Karahi, bring the Karahi and make Puri for me. Karahi. Koti. Koti. Muni. Yatana. Karahi. Then he said, oh no, I am not going to make any Pui et cetera for you. Yatana, go somewhere else. Antha, go somewhere else. When he says, antha, go somewhere else. Then he says, Ramaka Muni. Anth Ramakah. So the Muni is saying, Ram, Kaha means chant Ram, Ram, I'm not going anywhere. Forget about it. Ram, Ram, say Ram, Ram, I am not going anywhere. Then he said, okay, if you are not going then awath, I am coming with the Lut, with thy stick and say, okay, don't come. Nahi, don't come. I am going myself. See, this is the way they elaborate the choppais of Ramayan. Or they also. Mahaji has given many examples of Gita, the verses of Gita as well. That people twist it in their own way because they have to entertain the public. They have no knowledge of the philosophy. They just appeared over there to entertain the public. If the public will be entertained then they will invite them again and again. And they will earn money in that way. When Sri Maharaji saw that Maharaji was really grieved and he said it is so bad that on the name of Ramayan, Gita and Bhagavat they are deceiving people. They are completely misleading them. That's why Maharaj thought that the public is now very much diluted because of the effect of Kalyug as well. And these pundits have become so predominant that like Tulsidaji said, Dharma Soy Joy, Galuba, Java. The time is coming when the definition of DhAM will be the choice of the orator. He can twist any words, any CHOpai in any way. And he will depict the definition of Dharma according to himself. Like nowadays Mostly if you hear the lectures of many Babas on the TV as well. What are they talking Mostly all of them are talking about the conduct and behavior. You should behave with your husband like that. You should behave with your children like that. You should behave with your father like that. If you have this problem, you do this ritual. If you have this problem, do this Puja, this part and everything will be all right. The public thinks this is the Dharma because they are teaching in that way. PAndita, Soyjo, Gala Bhajawa, the one who is most crafty in misleading people will be called Pandit. They call, oh, he is a great scholar because he mislead the people very easily. So Sri Maharaji, whose name and nature both is Kripalu, could not bear it. He thought that so far I have been plundering only the Brajiras. The nectar of Bhakti was flowing all the time. This is what he was imparting. And only the blessed souls were benefited by this Bhaktiras. Few people were benefited because, as I was explaining yesterday, Maharaj's all action, behavior, personality, everything was very weird. So only very fortunate people, very blessed people were getting impressed on Shrimaraji because he had the internal thing, the very intimate kind of Bhakti, which was not comprehensible by everyone. So only fortunate people were coming to Sri Maharaji and they were benefited immensely with the presence of Maharaj. But now Sri Maharaji thought it is not sufficient to plunder the Brajirus only because he noticed in all these small surveillance, he observed that the pundits are badly misleading people. And the innocent people could not speculate that the rich of utter darkness is gradually swallowing them through these pundits. These Pandas are befalling them a lot. They could not see that they thought they are the king of Dharma, whatever they are saying. Because they were giving the quotations of Vedas. They were saying, See, this ritual is written in the Vedas for this kind of sin or for this kind of fault, for this kind of achievement. So you do it. They were thinking that only they know the Dharma. They were going behind them. So Shivaraji thought that this world needs the philosophy. They need the knowledge regarding God through our scriptures. They need the clear cut knowledge of real Dharma. So Sri Maharaji decided to slow down the plundering of the Brajaras. And he was thinking that now on I will give more knowledge of philosophy to the general public. He decided to do that because Shimaraji noticed one more thing. There were some devotees who were very close to Maharaji and their standard in Bhakti. The level of Bhakti had become very high. The symptoms of ecstasy were obviously seen in them. And there were some, I have also seen there were some who were having four to five symptoms of ecstasy in their body. But it was also seen that such a high class devotees also fell down. They also had a little bit of Kusang, any kind of bad association and they lost all their devotion in lack of the knowledge of philosophy. The Shrimaraji realized, First of all, the knowledge of philosophy is indispensable to tread on the path of devotion. So I must give that knowledge, the true knowledge. I will go in each and every city and I will give this knowledge to each and every person. He decided to do that. But at the same time, one question is there. There were 99% speakers, so called saints were impostors and they were giving wrong knowledge to the people. As I have already explained, they were getting completely wrong knowledge. They were completely misleading them. So people trust them because they have been listening to them for a long time. They think they are right. Secondly, they will emphatically say don't listen to him because you should always listen to the majority. If majority is saying something else and only one single person is saying something else, then you are not supposed to listen to him in that way. Who will listen to me If we will propagate the true knowledge, the true philosophy of the scriptures Nobody will trust me. Who will come to listen to me. That's why he thought to accomplish this mission in a different way. Now. He thought that I will also convene one convention in which I will invite all the saints and scholars to expose the hypocrites and the real saints. Clearly all the saints will come there, they will speak and some authentic people will also come over there to speak. Then everybody would know what is right and what is wrong. He thought about it and then he expressed his views amongst his devotees. That I want to do. I want to arrange a convention and I want to invite all the saints and the scholars over there. So he made a committee in which Panith Ram Samujoja, the eldest brother of Amaji Priyashranji, Tapeshri ji Pidarshiji, Ramesh Baba. There were few people. They used to do the plan with Raji and they discussed with Maharaj and then they liked this idea very much and all the Sasangis were ready to help Shrimaji in this work. So Shimaraji said, Now we have to decide that we have to have a convention. So when would we have it Shimaraji said, in the month of October. The October month is the best for any massive event because there is no rain, it's not too much, too hot, it's not too cold. That is the best time to do the convention in October. So the date was also fixed. That was from 16th October to 31st October of 1955, the date was fixed. Now the question arised, where should we do it The different people gave the different advice. Somebody said, do it in Ayodhya. Somebody said, no, we should do this. Kind of gorgeous. Even in Varanasi. Somebody said in Vrindavan that Maharaji contemplated for a few minutes and he said, no. The best place for such kind of convention is Chitrakot, Because Chaturkot is very rich in natural beauty. It's a beautiful place. It is a religious place. Bhagawan Sriram stayed there for such a long time. It's extremely beautiful place. It's not crowded, it's quiet, it's not the place of business people. And plenty of land is available there. And we need a huge land also for this event. So we should choose Chitrakut. So it was also decided that this convention will be held in Chitrakut from 16th October to 31 October in 1955. Now, Shimaharaji said to prepare a list of all the saints, Matadish, Mandaleshwar's, Mahamandaleshwar, Mahant and Jagadgurus, and the scholars, the philosophers. It was not possible by all other people. Shimaraji himself made the list of all the saints and the Jaga's Gurus, etc. And he also suggested that we should have some Kathawachaks, the Kathawachak of Ramayan, Kathawachak of Bhaktamal, Kathawachak of Bhagavat. And there should be some Rasmanlia, et cetera, as well, for the entertainment of general public. So what will happen Who we have to invite That was also decided that day. And then the list was prepared. Altogether, the list of 72 saints was prepared. 72 Most eminent saints and Kathawachaks were coming over there, mainly Jagadguru, Nimbar Kachar, Jagadguru Ramananjachari, Neel Megha, Chari, Karpatriji, Pathikji, Binduji, Atul Krishnaji Maharaj, Bali Prasadji Mishra Mahamahu, Padhya, Gildharlal Sharma, et cetera. Many prominent people were coming. They were invited. And then Shri Maharaji prepared a pamphlet himself for the Chitrakut Samayalan. And briefly he wrote in that pamphlet that I am exalted to say that we are going to have a huge convention in ChitrakOt in which all the famous saints of India and the Kathavachiks of Bhaktumal, Ramayan and Bhagavat and few RAS Mandalis are coming your presence in largest number is anticipated. And the big posters were also prepared. And it was written with the big letters on the posters and the pamphlets. Chitrakutaniki Virt. Once all the saint came at the time of Sri Ram in Trata, again the same thing is going to be happened. All the saints of India, all the Jugat gurus, they all are coming over here. So once you come here, you will have an opportunity to have darshan of all the saints. At one place. Shivahji advertised it. 100,000 big posters, 100,000 pamphlets, et cetera, were prepared. And all the Sasangis distributed them all over India. Whoever was listening about this event, they were preparing themselves to reach over there. So some were busy in going to the saints to invite them. Somebody was busy in just giving out the pamphlets. Some people are doing other things. There were so many things to be done and different devotees were busy in doing. Everybody was busy in making the preparation for Chitrakut. And Sri Maharaj was sitting at one place in Pratabgwar, in my father's home. And he was giving instructions to everybody. You do this, you go there, you go there. And in that way Shrimah arranged everything. I remember that when Mahaji decided it, it was the month of May in 1955. In the month of May, Mahaji decided. And in the month of October, such a huge convention was arranged beautifully. And after that, one question also arise that we are going to do the Sambalan of Chitrakut. It's a big Sambalan, but who will preside it Who will the president of Sambhelan. See, there are different ranks of the saints. The lowest rank is the rank of Kathawachaks. After that, those who give lectures on the scriptures. After that, those who talk about the philosophy, deep philosophy. And above that are the Jagadgurus. The rank of Jagadgurus is highest. But Shimaraji was not Jagadguru at that time. In fact, he was not wearing even the attire of his saint. He was living in white. And Maharaj was very young. That's why Maharaj could not be the president. When all the saints are coming, the senior saints are coming and Jagadgurus are coming. Then it was not becoming for Maharaj to be the President. Mahaji said that, I cannot be the president. All the Sasangis were insisting, Maharaj, why not Because you Deserve to be the president. Your knowledge is supreme. You deserve to be the President. Why would you not I said, no, it's against the decorum. In fact, some Jagadguru should be the President. But there was no original Jagadguru at that time. There were four Jagadgurus Jagadguru Shankaracharyaji, Jagadguru Nimbarka Char, Jagadguru Ramana Char and Jagadguru Madhvacharya. But they were not the original Jagadgurus. They were sitting on the seats of their previous masters. They were the successors of the original Shankaracharji, original Nimbarka Charji, original Ramanja Charji and original Madhva Charji. They were not the real Jugadgurus. And their knowledge was also not that much. So Maharaj didn't want any one of them to be the President of the convention. And there was one more problem. If Maharaj was going to choose one Jagadguru as the President again, one problem was coming, that if he will choose Jagadguru Nimbarka Chario, then Ramanacharya would say that why didn't you choose me If he choose Ramanacharya, then Shankaracharya would say that, why didn't you choose me So there will be a dispute. And other saints of lower rank could not be the president as well. So to get rid of all these disputes, Shrimaraji thought one thing. He said, I will choose only if the convention is going to be held in Chitrakut. So only Sri Ram Bhagawan Ram could be the president of this Sambayalan. So there was an organization in Ayodhya and it was called Siyaram Dharavar. And the master of that organization was Sri Ram Sharan Vyas. They were not doing any Ram Leela, et cetera. They were just showing the glimpse of Ram Sita and Lakshmar. And it was so extraordinary that lots of people were coming to have the glimpse of Ram Sita and Lakshma. They were very famous as Ram Dharbar. So Sri Maharaji invited Ram of Ram Dharbar. He wrote a letter to the master Sriramji, Sri Ram Srinji. And he said, I want your Ram to be the president of my convention because it is going to be held in Chitrakot and in Chitrakot. Anybody else cannot be the President except Sri Ram. So he will sit over there on the seat of President. And he agreed. So Sri Maharaji decided, and everybody was happy when it was informed to all the saints and Jagadgurus, the President of this convention will be Sriram himself. Because it is going to be held in Chittrakot. And when there was one more problem Mahaji solved that problem also with this thing. What that problem was the Jagad Gurus. This is the tradition of Jagadgurus that when they give lecture they sit on their throne. All the Jagadgurus have a throne, Jagadguru Throne. Like Shimaraji also had like this. So they had to speak sitting on the throne. So there was a problem. The problem was coming that if the Jagat Gurus will sit on the throne and all other saints will sit on the floor on the stage. Because when it was decided that Ram Chandiji will be the president then automatically it was also decided that all the saints will sit on the floor in front of Ram. Nobody can sit on the throne or a chair, etc. It was predecided that everybody will sit on the floor on the stage. But Jagat Gurus, when they speak they have to sit on the seat. But because Ramchanji was going to be the president. That's why Sri Maharaj said that Jagadgurus also have to sit on the floor. So all other Jagadgurus were agreed. But there was one Jagadguru Ramanujacharya. His name was Devanayaka Chari. He was very stubborn about it and he said, no, it is my rule and I will speak only sitting on the throne. So the problem was going to occur that other saints could object that he's sitting on the throne and why are we sitting here on the floor That Shimaraji cleverly changed his schedule. There was a schedule since morning till night. So in the morning from six to ten only the Kathawachaks, Raslila, Manli et cetera, they were performing their programs. So Shimaraji put his lecture among the Kathawachaks in the morning. Because if the Kathavachaks were sitting over there and one Jagadguru is sitting on the throne and giving lecture they won't mind because Their rank is too low from Jagadguru. So they won't mind it. So Maharaj changed his schedule and he put him with the Kathavachaks. But he could not understand this accused decision of Sri Maharaji and he was agreed with that. So in that way Sri Maharaj is deciding that Sri Ram Chanji will be the president of this convention. He solved many problems at the same time. So it was decided who will be the president also. Now again another question came that there should be a welcome committee as well. So who will be the President of Welcome committee People were suggesting the name of some people and Maharaj was thinking after contemplation of couple of minutes, Shrimaraji said that the President of welcome committee should be very humble, soft spoken and forbearing. And he should keep in his mind that any word or behavior of that person must not offend any saint of any rank. Even if the saint is of the lowest rank, he must not be offended by any word or behavior. And he should do all kind of Seva of all the saints very promptly. Then who can do that Shrimaraji said, Nobody can do that except me. I will do it. People were stunned. What are you talking about, Maharaj We are your servant. This is the work of service. We will do this trivial job. Why would you do it You are the master of all. You are not supposed to serve them. You are much more superior than those saints. Why would you serve them Shimaji said, no, I know none of you can do it. I will do it. Mahaji did not listen to anybody. And he said, don't think it's a trivial job. It's very, very consequential. It is very important to serve them perfectly. Otherwise, don't know the nature of saints. They are sometimes very arrogant. If their milk will go just 15 minutes late and they will be angry at you, and then you will not be able to tolerate it. So let me do it. Shri Maharaji did his Seva so perfectly that he put an example in front of others. He was so polite, so humble, so forbearing. And whenever any saint, any guest saint was arriving, Sri Maharaj was going to receive them. First of all, he is touching their feet and with folded hands, he was coating them to their respective rooms. He was asking them, he was frequently visiting them to ask if everything is going on very well. Any saint did not make any complaint. Rather, when they were asked, Are you happy with the services They said, Kripalaji Maharaj was serving us so swiftly, so promptly, so humbly. We are extremely impressed. We could never think that one can serve us like this. Everybody was extremely impressed on Shrimaji. So Maharaj became the Swagata Daksha and he did his duty. Now Maharaji went to Kanpur. There was a very famous capitalist. His name was Mangthuram Japurya. Sri Maharaj used to stay in his home. He was a devotee of Sri Maharaj also very opulent person of Kanpur. So Maharaji went over there and he said about the Chitrakut Samayalan. And then he asked that, what Shiva are you going to do in this convention Then he said, I take the responsibility of all the meals of the invited saints from breakfast, from the morning breakfast till dinner. I will arrange everything. Mahaji was very happy with him. Then there was another capitalist. He was also very famous. He was very opulent. His name was Bhagariyaji. Shimaraji sent a couple of devotees to him to say that I want you to take the responsibility of the lung of all the sadhus every day for 15 days. He was very opulent. But he denied, I cannot do this Seva. But he donated Rs10,000. I said, that's enough. That's what I can do. When Maharaji heard that he denied for this Seva, Shrimaraji wrote a note for him and he said, I conferred you a seva for which people desire for millions of lives. You are given an exclusive Seva, but you could not understand the importance of this saver and you denied for that. Now you have to repent and I am returning your Rs10,000. They are good for you. Keep it. When he saw this message and the people told about Maharaj's personality, then he really repented. He went to Sri Maharaji. He was crying, he was begging pardon. Mahaji said, no, your chance has gone forever. You cannot get this Seva. If you want, you come like other visitors over there. You enjoy the Sam Mailan. Listen to all the saints. That's all. But any Seva will not be given to you anymore. So most of all, the expenses were done only with the small amounts of donation of the general public. So the preparation Shrimaraji ordered to make the preparation of that convention, a very huge Pandora for 100,000 people was made over there. And it was decorated with lights and the other kind of flags, et cetera. Lots of light was the beam light and the focus light and everything were arranged everywhere. When the inhabitants of Chitrakot and of the nearby areas heard about this convention and they heard that around 200,000 people are coming over here. Then they started coming to over there to have their shops, to make their income. So many people came to have their shop. They started having their shop. They started establishing the the shop and decorating the shops. And other people also were living there. They started decorating their houses for many purpose in that way. Within 15 days, the entire Chitrakot was decorated like a new bride. It was not looking the same, Chitrakut. And each and every inhabitant of Chitrakot was saying that now we are feeling that Sriram Chandji is coming back to Chitrakot after Trata Yug he is coming back again to Chitrakot to bless us. We are waiting when Sri Ram Chanji will come with Lakshmarji and Chakajani Masita we will have darshan of Sriram again. It is our feeling that Sriram Chanji is coming again in Chitrakot they were extremely happy once I took couple of buses from Kanpur with some devotees and I went to Chitrakot. So there was a temple by the way, we went in that temple as well. So they started touching our feet. They were touching the feet of all the Sanghis also. And he was shedding the tears. He was the old saint. I said why are you doing all that He said when we heard the kirtan because we were coming with the RadhyAgo, Vindabhajo, Vrindavan Chandavajo. When we heard this Kirtan we guessed that you are the devotees of Kripaluji Maharaj and Kripaluji Maharaj came over here. He was shedding tears and he was saying that we always used to think that is it possible that we will go to Saket Lok I know that we cannot go to the saket Lok but Sri Kripalaji Maharajkam he came here in the form of Sri Ramchanji and we felt that we have reached Saket Lok. He made this Chitrakud just like Saket Loka and it was our experience. We're having the bliss of Saket Loka and we are still waiting for him. But since then he never came back to Chitrakut. Whenever you meet Sripalu Jima please tell from our side that come once again. We are desperate to see you. Everybody was saying the same thing in Chitrakut. When Maharaj came his presence was like the presence of Sri Ram himself. So the atmosphere of whole Chitrakut was completely converted into very, very pious, very holy and very blissful atmosphere. Everybody was waiting for that and eventually everything was done. The preparation was made. All the saints, et cetera, they were also invited and they started coming over there also. Because the convention was going to start from 16th and on the 15th many of the saints started coming over there on the 16th it had to be started. The pandal, beautiful pandal was already prepared. In the morning of 16th the inauguration time was 07:00 a.m. From 06:00 a.m. The pandal. The whole pavilion was full all the saints, the Jagad Gurus, Mandala, Mahamandaleshwar, they all were taking their respective places. They sat down over there. When the saints were coming, Sri Maharaj and other Satsangis were paying full honor to them and they were just giving the instructions where they have to sit. They all were set. And in the last the tumultuous noise of many Shank and drums and terranids, et cetera was heard. And then we saw Sri Ram was coming, Raghavendra Sarkara from Darbar. He was coming and Sri Maharaji was bringing them. He was bringing Sriram and he brought him at this stage. And in the center of this stage there was a big throne Decorated for Raghavendra Sarkar. He sat down over there. All were set. Then Maharaji came on the MIC and he addressed all the saints and the crowd with some compendious welcoming words. And he expressed his gratitude towards all of them. And then he told about the purpose of this convention. And he also said about the programs which are going to hell since morning till night. He gave a very small lecture to introduce the nature of this convention. Briefly I can say what Maharaj said. I can't remember each and every word of Maharaj, but I am going to give you the gist. At the main points of Maharaj's welcoming lecture, Shrimaraji started from the sentence. Although whenever an auspicious event starts, generally it commences with the Mangalacharana. Starting of all the religious event is from Mangalacharana. But I am not going to do that. There is a mantra of Swastik. It is called Swastik Mantra. It is recited in the beginning of any auspicious event. Shivaji said that I am not going to do that. Why He said, because the abode of all auspicious signs. Sriram himself is sitting here as the President and the venue is the holy land of Chitrakot. Plus on top of that, as it is said in Bhagavad, it is overly stated the immense importance of the saints. When Lord Krishna says himself Anubrajam Puye, I go behind my devotees. Why To protect them. No, Poynovi. I wanted to be exalted by their footrust. I want to get their foot for my betterment. Lord Krishna says like that. So all the evident promising saints of India are sitting here. What could be more auspicious than that Then why should I use the word of any hymn for this auspiciousness All kind of auspiciousness is sitting over here. I don't have to say anything. I don't have to use any word for that. And then after that, he also indicated about the purpose of convention. He said, Although the purpose of this Million is the wish of God, but still I will reveal some other purposes which are in My mind. And I have arranged this Convention especially for those Purposes. And then he said that we have the huge pile of Scriptures. We have many, many scriptures. But it is seen, it seems like there is some contradiction between all these Scriptures. That's why the people are unable to understand the true form of Dharma. Rather they are more and more confused. TRUTHiPurana, Bahu, Kahika, Adhik, Arujai. They are more entangled because one Scripture is saying Like Mimansa is saying, you have to perform the rituals. Only Bhagava says no, Bhakti is the main thing. GiTA is saying no, Karmyoga is the main thing. Said. They don't understand. What should we do We should follow Bhagavat or Mimansa or Gita or other Uprishes we don't even know. So they are confused. So keeping this in the mind, I request all the saint speakers to reconcile all of them. I want you to tell them the coherence between all the Scriptures. For example, Shimaraji said, for example, Number one, in our scriptures, many paths of God realization are depicted like Karma, Gyan and Upasana. So what is the relevance between them and what is the solution Please explain it. Number two, there are some hymns of Personal form of Brahm and Impersonal form of Brahm, Sakar and Nirakar form of Brahma. And many thesis are written on these hymns as well. But some contradiction is seen in them. So please reconcile this matter as well. Number three, there are some scriptures like Mimansa, Charvak, et cetera. They are called AtheIst Scriptures or Pessimistic scriptures. If they are atheist, then what is the authenticity of these scriptures As Scriptures, why are they called Scriptures What is the authenticity of them and how come they are useful in our life Number four, the Elaboration of GitA and BraHMASutRA is done by many eminent Acharyas. But there is also some diversion which is seen over there because they elaborated it According to their philosophies of DwAITuad ADVAITWad, Dwaitad Daitwad, Vishishta, Daituad Pure Daetwad. That's why the public is confuSed. So I want you to reconcile all of these philosophies. And the fifth one is what is the distinctiveness and immense importance of Bhakti. Explain it in Nutshell. I want to tell all my honorable saints that I want you to clear the coherence of all the scriptures. And I also want you to reveal the unanimity of all the saints who are here according to the guidelines of the Vedas and all our authentic scriptures. I believe that all the Brahmanish Mahapurash are sitting over here and they will definitely solve this problem of the public. For this hope, I have invited all the saints over here and I think they will be satisfied with your lectures. He said like that. And then Shimaraji distributed a pamphlet to all thy speakers. In that pamphlet as well, some duos of questions means A and B question. The pair of A and B questions was written and they had to reconcile them. And those questions were very weird, according to them, because like the A question was that you have to do everything only to realize God. And B question, you have to do nothing to realize God. Everyone is the starch devotee of God. Nobody can even know God. You have to knowledge is indispensable to realize God. The knowledge will take you to the utter darkness. This kind of jewels of the question was there, and there were twelve questions like this when they read it. In fact, when Maharaji was giving this kind of synopsis, that the work and what you have to reconcile, etc. Most of the saints and the scholars could not even understand the question of Sri Maharaji, what to say of the answer. They had no answer of those questions. They could not even understand what Maharaj is saying. Because whatever Sri Maharaj said as the problem, as the question, they did not know that it is also happening. They had no idea at all. So when they got those papers, the pamphlets, they started saying with each other, what is this question They are very weird, they are baseless. There could not be the answer of these questions. But Maharaj was seeing their expressions, and Maharaj was visiting frequently the rooms of the saints. And he was finding the heap of the scriptures in each room. They were turning the pages to find out the answers, but the answer was not written there. The scriptures don't give the answer. Everything is there. You find out. It is not written in the form of this is the question and this is the answer. So you will find out anywhere. No, the whole scripture is giving some knowledge. Answer is to be found out by you. But they didn't know. And eventually they said, there is no answer of these questions. There's no answer of these questions. And Maharaj was every day in the morning, he was saying the people are not getting the answer to their questions. They are very upset. I request the saints to give the answer. Today, three, four times Maharaj was saying, third day there was a very high class scholar, his name was Neel Meghacharya. He came on the Mic and he said Kripalaji Maharaj has given this list of the questions to just insult us. There's no answer of this question. They are weird question, they are baseless. He said like that. Mahaji was just listening. He was saying on the Mic. Then Karpatri ji Maharaj came. Karvatri Jamaj was not Jagadguru, but he was the greatest philosopher and scholar of that time. Although he was also thinking the same thing as the Neil Meghachary Maharaj said, but he was more moderate. And he said in a very modified language, he said we should not say that there is no answer of this question. It's wrong to say that there is no answer of this question. Probably there is some answer of this question. But we cannot give the answer of this question. But I am very sure Kripaluji Maharaj who made this questionnaire, he knows the answers of these questions indirectly. He was thinking that if we who are searching on one, one book for such a long time, we are scholars and we are such senior scholars. We have been giving lectures on the scriptures for such a long time. He is only 32 years old man and he never gave any lecture. He was never seen reading any scripture. He does not know anything about any scripture. How can he give the answer to this question If he will also not be able to give the answer to this question then our level will be equal. Then nobody will say that we are insulted. Then rather he will be insulted. He made a wrong question answer that he will be defamed, not we. From that point of view. He challenged Sri Maharaji in a very humble words. He said, I believe that Kripalaji Maharaj knows the answers to these questions. So I request him to come and answer these questions. Shimaj immediately came on thy stage and he said, I humbly accept the entreaty of Karpatri Ji Maharaj. But I am Swagata Dhyaksh and not supposed to sit on the seat of the speakers to give the lectures. But of course, if our President allow me, I am ready to give the answer to all these questions. It was a great surprise as well that the President was a little boy who was sitting there as Raghwendra Sarkar. He never spoke anywhere on the MIC. He was not well educated as well. He was a child. But as soon as Mahaji said, if my president allow me to speak, to sit on the seat of the Vyaskadi, then I will answer the question. He immediately stood up. He came in front of the mic and he said, I allow him. So everybody started clapping. They were so happy. The whole pandal was filled with the clappings. And the saints were also happy. Why The saints were happy that now he will also be in self share. Now everybody will know the reality of this person also because he deceived us. He made this questionnaire to insult us, but now he will have the lesson. They were happy to think like this. And the Janta. The crowd was happy that we will see. They were more eager to hear Shimaraji because they were thinking if the answer. These senior saints could not give the answer. They are famous philosophers, they are famous scholars. They could not give the answer. Then how would this 32 years old person will give the answer to all these questions They wanted to see thaT. That's why they were eager. Shimaraji came on the phone again microphone and he said, I will start my lecture from today on at 09:00 because the programs are going on up to 09:00. So without interrupting any other program, I will start my lecture at 09:00. So whoever wants to listen to the answers to this question, please come at 09:00. So it is 849. Bolibrindavan, Bihari Laki, J. Srimat, Satguru, Sarkari Ki.