So we heard about the tremendous victory of Sri Maharaji on the entire group of topmost scholars. And thus he unfurled the flag of his victory all over the country. After that, naturally, the devotees of Shri Maharaji were related, and they also celebrated the function for Maharaji's victory and attainment of the exclusive degree of Best Jagadguru, which never happened in the history. As I have mentioned many times, the four previous Jagad Gurus, they had to have the debate with the scholars of that time, and after that they were given the degree of Jagatguru. It happened for the first time in the history that Shrimaraji didn't have to have the debate with the scholars. Rather, only after listening to the lectures of Sri Maharaj, they were so much impressed that they submitted themselves completely unto Sri Maharaji. And they also accepted that he is not a human being, is not an ordinary personality. It is not only difficult to defeat him in Shastrath. Rather, it is impossible to talk in front of him, because his knowledge is supreme. This knowledge is divine. And I described how Sri Maharaji reached after this victory to Prathavgar. Before this event as well, Shrimaraji was living in Pratapgar. He left from Pratapgar for Kashi. And after winning this event, Shrimaji came back to Pratapgara. And in Pratapgar, all the devotees celebrated it with great festivity. They had a lecture series also for 15 days. And the purpose of having 15 day lecture series is to reveal to the public of Pratapkar that why was he given this exclusive title of the best Jagad Guru Because Shimaraji's lectures were very much enlightening. Plus, each and every point was supported by all the main scriptures. Plus, his language was so simple, his way of presentation was so simple that even a layman could easily understand the entire philosophy. So just to show and just to inform people about the right, the true knowledge of the Vedas, and just to awake them that whatever they have been doing so far, without any devotion by heart, that was Completely wrong. Because Shrimaraji showed the easiest, best and practical path, which is recommended by the Vedas, Vedant, Bhagwad, Gita and Raman. The path of Bhakti and Bhakti is only the path of God realization. He proved all those things. And after that, Shrimaraji also visited Allahabad. What happened in Allahabad, that was also described yesterday. After that, Shimaraji went to some other cities like Agra, Kanpur, etc. As well eventually he reached his oldest city, Mahu. Mahu was such an exalted city where Shri Maharaji lived in his youth, when he was only 1415 years old. And he started the spark of his mission right from there, just as Abraham boy. When Shimaraji living over there. At that time, when he was only 1415 years old, he was not giving any lecturer, rather he was a student. But he was going every day in a temple. The name of that temple was Gopal Mandev, where he was reciting the Shlokhs of Bhagavad. And only the Shloks of Bhagavad were so enchanting, so pleasant for everyone, that many people were coming every day only to listen to the Shlokes of Bhagavat of Srimaraji. Because they could realize that he is singing the Shlok of Bhagavad. But it is not something. The sound, the pronunciation and everything was informing them very obviously that this recitation is not an ordinary thing. When he recites the Shlok of Bhagavad, the feeling of Bhakti was rising in the hearts of everyone. It was not ordinary reciting. That's why, although Sri Maharaji was a boy and he was a student at that time. But the people had lots of respect for Maharaj and they used to call him Pandit. Maharaji was famous in Mahu with the name of Pandit. Everybody was calling him Pandit. But they have lots of respect for Sri Maharaj and lots of love for him. This is the place where the most intimate devotees of Maharaj live. They were so close to Maharaj. The ladies of Maho always served Maharaj as their child. They saw Maharaj singing, dancing, being unconscious in ecstasy. They saw all those things in Maharaj. But still they Loved Maharaj like a child. And they were saying him Pandit only. So they had an idea that this boy is the ocean of very high class devotion. The devotion which we see in him is rarest. Afraid. We never saw this kind of thing anywhere else. So that devotion, especially when Maharaj was dancing in ecstasy, when he was creating a very devotional atmosphere, that every present person was feeling the devotion inside the heart, as the Bhagavad says, Dati Kwachicha Vilaja udga Madhakti Yukto Bhuanam Punati Bhagwat. Sometimes his voice was shook, sometimes he was crying, sometimes in ecstasy, he was laughing and laughing. Sometimes he was acting as he's annoyed, sometimes as he's playing with someone. They witnessed all those things. So they knew that this person is full of devotion. But they had no idea that the same tender heart of our little Pandit is also an ocean of unfathomable knowledge. They had no idea of that. But when they heard that Maharaji has become Jagadguru and he's going to visit Mahu, then the whole city was celebrating. They were very much elated. They were very, very happy. And they are telling each other, you know, our Pandit is coming back to his home. He is not that little Pandit now. He has become Jagad Guru and he has defeated all the scholars of India. They were surprised, but they were very happy to know that our Pandit has become Jagat Guru. And they started planning that, what should we do What will please him How should we welcome him He's coming after such a long to his home, long time to his home. So we should welcome him so that he will be very much pleased over here. They were talking and planning in that way when Maharaji had to come over there. And two days earlier, there was a satsangi of Sri Maharajiv. His name was Mangatram Yadav. He used to be all the time with Maharaji for Seva. And because Maharaji was speaking from his throne, Jagadguru Singh Hasan, that's why it was his duty to take that Singhasana couple of days earlier to the city where he was going to speak. So MangaTra Miyadav came over there. There was a Sangeel Mahu. His name was Dwarka Prasad Bharani. So he came to his house with that throne, along with a hairy fan of Jude, a shiny fan of Jude with the silver handle, silver Paduka and a silver umbrella. Seeing that throne, they were very happy. And this rumor also went all over the city that Maharaj's throne has come, which is so gorgeous, so beautiful. So many people were coming just to see the throne. When they were seeing the throne, were coming to see the throne. They felt like they are seeing Maharaj. They were so happy to see the throne. Only everyone was doing Pranam in the evening when the maximum people were present to see the throne and other things. Then they had a big Aarti over there. They had the Aarti of throne. They did Pranam to throne. This was their love, their reverence for Shimaraji. They were looking Maharaj in that throne because it was Maharaj's throne. After one day, after, in other words, after two days. It was the date when Maharaji had to come in Mahu. So everybody was ready with good clothes and everything. Everyone was having a Mala some flowers to offer to Shrimaraji that our Pandit is coming today. The train was to come around 03:30 p.m. So all the devotees were around hundred. They reached the station. When the train came over there they were anxiously looking Mahaji. They didn't see Shri Mahaji. Then immediately everybody started seeing in each and every bogey. Where is Sri Maharaji But Maharaji was nowhere. Then after the train had gone, still they stayed over there. Probably we didn't see. Probably Shrimaraji is somewhere here on the station. So they were still looking for Shimaraji. But they didn't find him anywhere. So they were so much disappointed. Many of them started crying. And with their wet eyes they came back home. Many could not even sleep. They said, we felt like everything has been robbed from us. We have become just a beggar, we have nothing at all. They were so much disappointed. Why he hath not come Some were saying, probably there was some lack in our love. That's why Pandit did not come. Somebody was saying, probably we did not make the proper arrangement for him. Probably that's why he did not come. And there were some elderly people. They were also thinking, I don't know what happened to him. Probably he was not feeling well, that's why he did not come. So everybody was guessing. But they were very sad. Shimaraji did not come. Next day, again there was a devotee. His name was Rameshwar Prasad. He took a couple of devotees and he went a nearby station which comes before Mahu. And the name of the station was Rathlam. Because he thought that we will catch Maharaj from Rathlam so we don't have to see each and every Bogi in Mahu. So they went to Rathlam, in Rathlam also when the train came, they searched Maharaji in every compartment. But they didn't find Maharaj. Then those devotees, they sat down in the train. And when the train was running towards Maho, they were still searching Maharaj in each and every Bogi. But they didn't find Shri Maharaj. There was another devotee whose name was Jugal, Kishore Bharani. He also took two, three satsangis. And he went to another station, Indore. And he thought, I will get Maharaji right from Indore. Indore was a little bigger station. They thought, probably we can easily search Maharaj over there. The Yugal Kishoreji with the Satsangis, he stood at the end of the platform. So he said that when the train will come. Then we can carefully see in each and every compartment when the train will pass through us. They were seeing and then the train was slow down, when it was slow, then they started running with the train. And after that, when the train stopped, then Yugal Kishoreji came in front of the first class bogey. His mind, his eyes was totally engrossed in thoughts of Maharaj. He was just searching Maharaj only. So when he came in front of the first class bogey, he was looking for Maharaj. But from that gate of the compartment a man came, was very tall and he was wearing a brown color of gown and a hat. He came in front of Yugal Kishoreji. He was very mad at him. That why he's not moving. So he was trying to see Maharaj from this side, that side. And when he did not move, then he pushed him. Then he get out from here, I have to search someone. When he pushed and then again when he was looking into the bogey, somebody dabbed his hat from the back. Then he saw that who is doing this Then he saw that the same person with the brown gown and the hat was smiling, looking towards him. Then he recognized, oh, Hishi Maharaji. Maharaji was standing right in front of him. And he was saying, get out from me here. And then he pushed him. And then Maharaj had to go at the back and he dabbed him. So when he saw his Maharaji, he was overwhelmed. He was going to touch the feet of Shrimaraji, but Maharaj hugged him Thai then he started crying and he said to Shrimaji inconspicuously, that so much grace on such an insignificant soul. And Maharaji put his arm on his leg. And then both of them went in the bogey again. And the Sasangis, two, three sasangis who came with them, they also went in the bogey. And then everybody was happy. And they were telling about what happened last day. They said that how the people came, they were very happy. Everyone was having a Mala and flowers and they were so much excited to see you. But when you didn't come and most of them were crying, they were very sad. In that way. There were just two stations behind. So they came to Mahu. When Sri Maharaji Strain reached Mahu, Maharajit immediately came out from his compartment. He stood in a corner and all the Sasangis, when they saw the train has come, they were running around here and there seeing where is Maharachi Mahaji was seeing this scene that how the people are running around to see him after some time when the people were almost disappointed. Shrimaji has not come today as well. Then Maharaj put off his hat. As soon as he put off his hat, then they recognized Maharaj and rushed towards him. Then they came to him. They touched Maharaj's foot. Somebody was offering the flower, somebody was offering Mala. There were few. They didn't come near to Shimaraji. They were standing at a distance with the folded hand and they were just shedding tears. Shimaraji went forward and hugged them all. And in that way they were very happy and they came home. And after that, whatever they had planned, they did all those things. They celebrated Maharaj's arrival as Jagad Guru and they were also talking to Maharaji. We could not believe that we saw as a boy 1415 years boy. We could never believe that you have become Jagad Guru, but we are very happy to see you that you have become Jagad Guru. Now in that way they were talking and they informed that from tomorrow on we are going to have a 15 day lecture in Gopal Mandir, the same Gopal mandir where Shimaji used to recite the Schlokes of Bhagwat. Only now he was going to give the lecture in the same temple. The greatest devotee of Shimaraji, Jani Bai, she also found Shimaraji in the same temple when he was only 15 years old. And now Shimaraji is going to give the lecture in the same temple. So when Mahaji's lecture was started, by the way, it was too cold, extremely cold, but still hall was full and after four or five days there was no room for those who are coming little late. Many people were listening to the lectures of Shimaraji sitting outside the temple. So crowd was increasing every day. And every day they were also announcing that on the 15th day, after a lecture of Shrimaraji will have a big procession and I want everybody to join the procession. They prepared some Keetan mandalis as well, with their respective uniform. And they also prepared some band parties with their beautiful uniform. And many other people were invited. Some distinguished people of the city were also invited to join the procession. In that way. After 15th day lecture, they were all arrayed in a very good manner. They prepared 60 girls with Lahanga, Dupata and the Kalash. They were walking in the front of Maharaji sheet. ThEy brought a special kind of royal kind of ride which is called Bhagi. Bhagi is a royal kind of ride. And on that bhagi they prepare beautiful throne of Shrimaji, with the lights and flowers and everything. And they also prepared beautiful yellow silken breasts for Shrimaraji. He sat down on that, and after that, the procession moved. Sometimes Shrimaraji was doing Kirtan standing at his place. When Maharaj was know, rest of the time, the other Mandels and the Sanghis, they were doing Keithan on the way. But sometimes Maharaji was also standing, and he was doing Keithan for 20 minutes or half an hour, when Maharaji was starting Keithan. So everything was going very full of life and loud, like all the dholag, Jhan, Majira, mridang, etc. They were being played very loudly, and everybody was seen in great seal. When Mahaji was singing, the people were dancing, crying, and they were falling, being unconscious as well. The ketan was really, really full of devotion. Anybody could see that everyone is full of devotion when the kirtan was going on. So two, three times Sri Maharaji did the kirtan. Once while Maharaji was doing Kirtan, and he was leading Kirtan. The driver of the Bhagi, his name was Raman, he was Mohammed the Keertan, very good Keertan was going on. And Shrimaraji was also. Sometimes some symptoms of ecstasy were seen in the body of Maharaj as well. And other Sri sanghis were also dancing in ecstasy at the same time. Rehman just jumped from the bhagi and he started dancing on the street. When he was dancing, he was also seen in ecstasy. His eyes were closed and he was shedding tears. The bucky was stopped and the horses started dancing too. When the horses started dancing, Rahman started dancing. Then when the horses started dancing, then everyone was very happy, and they also started doing Keertan and dancing with full enthusiasm. The Keertan was very live at that time. So when it happened, after seeing this glimpse, the people were talking. When Rahman started dancing, and when the horses started danciNg, at that time, it was reminding the scene of Mahaprabhu, Chaitanya. At the time of Maha Chaitanya, also seeing him, even the wild animals were dancing in ecstasy. We saw the same scene over here. We were remembering Chaitanya, Mahaprabhu, seeing this scene of Sri Maharaj. So in that way, the people of Mahu, they celebrated Maharaj's arrival as Jagadguru. After that, Shri Maharaj went to other places as well, and he also went to Kashi for a lecture. When Maharaj's lecture was going on in Kashi, there was a Satsangay Aleri Shobha Vasu, she was the head of the philosophy department. She was very much impressed on Shrimaraji. And then she talked about Maharaj's divinity to his father also. His father was again living in Calcutta. Shubha Vasu was also originally from Calcutta. His parents were living in Calcutta. So they also attended the lectures of Maharaj. And later on his father, Dr. Vasu, he invited Maharaj in Calcutta for lecture. Shrimaraji went over there for two weeks, for two week lecture. When Maharaj's lecture was going on and only two days lecture was left, the appendix of Sri Maharaji burst out. Still he had to speak that day. And one more day, two days lecture was left, his appendix was burst. But he did not inform anyone, did not say anyone that this problem is going on. He went for lecture, he hide it. And again he went next day also to give his lectures. Why Because he thought only two days are left and the last lectures are decisive and they are the gist of all the lectures. If I will miss these two lectures, then there will be no benefit of giving previous 13 lectures. So to give the full benefit of my lecture, it is must to give these two lectures as well. The Ramayan says, Para Upokar Vajanamanakaya, Santasubha Sahajaraya. The saints are naturally benevolent. The heart brims with the mercy all the time. Bhurjatar sama, Santa Kripala, Parahita Saha Nito Bipati Bisala. They have only one thing in their mind, that how can I benefit others The saints come on this earth only to deliver the material beings. So all the time the full importance is given by them to the welfare of the public. That's why, like the Bhuja Taru Samasantha Kripala, the tree of birch, it gives each and every layer for the benefit of others. In the same way, the saints also, they don't care for their body, they don't care for their health, they don't care for their comfort at all. They always think about the public welfare only. That's why he hid these things. They did not tell anybody what the major problem is going on in my body. But when the last lecture was finished and Shrimaraji was coming from the stage, then, by the way, his Pitambar, it moved towards this side and the whole area was inflated. And Dr. Vasu could see that as soon as he saw towards that part of his stomach, he could understand that something is wrong, extremely wrong. Then he said, what is this And Maharaj immediately hid it and said no. He forcibly removed Maharaj's dupata again and said what happened He started scolding, literally scolding Maharaj. Why didn't you tell me so far What are you doing How come you are still alive And he said, now we don't have to go to home. Let's go to the hospital. Said, no, no, it will be okay. He said, no, you don't say anything now I will do whatever I have to do. He directly took him to Maharaji, to the hospital. In his emergency department. The doctor saw it. Every doctor was saying the same thing. How come he is alive Because after the appendix burst, within 24 hours the poison spreads all over and person cannot survive at any cost. It is impossible. And he is surviving for two days after appendix was birthed. It was so amazing. But because it was really, really an emergency that all the doctors got together and they decided that we have to have surgery right away. They admitted Shimaji right away and they wanted to do the surgery of Shimarachi. So they were doing something. They were trying to give the chloroform, et cetera. One doctor was doing. Then the second doctor come. Then third doctor come. Then fourth Doctor come. When five doctors got together over there and they were discussing something that Maharajiyas was the problem. Is there any problem Then they said, Maharaji, before surgery we give chloroform to bring the patient in the state of unconsciousness. And we have given you more than we give generally to others. We have given you double chloroform. Now we cannot give more than that and you are not getting unconscious. Then how can we start the surgery Oh, Mai said, why didn't you tell me before He said, okay, I'm going to be unconscious now. You start your surgery. And then he lied down and they checked. They felt like, yes, Maharaj is unconscious now. And they started Maharaj's surgery. Maharaj already asked them, for how long should I be unconscious They said for 4 hours. Okay, so I'm going to be unconscious for 4 hours and you start your surgery. So when the surgery was almost finished and they were the last stitches then according to the nature of Maharaji, he said Radhi. When he said Radhe then they were startled. What happened He is not unconscious. Then they were seeing towards Maharaj and Maharaj was laughing. I said, what You were not unconscious. Shimaji was still laughing. You did your work, that's all. I was unconscious. Doesn't matter. You finished your work. He said, but better we didn't. Know that you were not unconscious. That way we could not do the surgery. The surgery was finished successfully. And after that Mahaji was sent in ICU. And there was a nurse, her name was some Majumdar, her last name was Majumdar. So she was given the instruction that you have to be with him. All the time she was looking after Maharaj. So that night she looked after Maharaj. And next day also the same nurse was looking after Maharaj. In the nighttime she went for a while, I think for washroom or something, just for a few minutes. And Shrimaraji had a chance. Mahaji was not allowed even to get up from his bed. And as soon as that nurse went somewhere, Shrimaji immediately got up and through the lift he came down, he went outside, took a taxi and he disappeared from there. When she came back, the bed was empty. She was so nervous. Where the patient has gone He was not supposed to get up from his bed. Where is he So she was looking everywhere, asking everyone. So there was such a big scatter that where the patient has gone, everybody asking each other, but he was not there. Then she informed the doctor. In the morning, lots of doctor came, they were having a meeting. And everybody was blaming that nurse that you didn't take good care. That's why he has gone. He said, no, she was trying to convince everyone that I was full time. All the time I was there. And patients were also very good. I was very happy with the patient. But I don't know what happened. Within no time he left and I don't know where has gone. But it was on his job as well that she was going to lose the job. When this meeting was going on, Ram Sharma of Sambalpur, he was there in Calcutta and he was taking care of Maharaj. He was allowed to come and meet Maharaj if he had to give some food or anything. So when he came there, then all the doctors said that your patient is disappeared. He has gone somewhere. Where has he gone And the nurse was also crying in front of Rambhiya. He said, find out where is Maharaji because I am losing my job. They were accusing me that you were not careful. Then Rambhiya said, I will find out, don't worry, please give me some time and then I will give you all the information. He immediately thought, because Mahaji was talking to him one day, that after this I have to go to Delhi for a very important thing. So he guessed, probably Mahaji has gone to Delhi. In Delhi, Mahaji was staying in the house of Mr. BB Mathur. GM Northern Railway so he called over there. And then they said, yes, Maharaj is here. So he talked to Maharaj. Where are you speaking from, Mahaji I mean speaking from the hospital. Gadhe, why are you calling me from the hospital Mahaji is not the matter of know. You don't know. It is very serious and Your nurse is going to lose her job. They all are very much worried. You were not supposed to go like that. And Mahaji said, give this phone to the head doctor. Then the phone was given to the doctor. Then Mahaji said, See, I have some very important work over here. I had to come here immediately. That's why I came. It's not the mistake of the nurse. Nothing should happen to her. Sri Mahaji said it in the form of order. Nothing should happen to her. It was not her mistake at all. I came myself because I had some emergency to come over here. In fact, the reason was this, that the son of Mr. Bibi Mathur. He was the chief director of T Estate Assam. He was there and he was going to be married. But it was her firm determination. He said, if Maharaji will not come, I am not going to do this marriage. I will go to Bharat only when Maharaji will go with me. So Maharaj, as I said before, the saints do not care for themselves. But Aham Bhakto Paradhino Yasvatantra Ivadvicha. God is always under the control of their devotees. If with the pure heart you want him to do something, he will definitely do for you. Ye Thamam Prapade, God is always bound to fulfill the desire of his devotees. So Shrimaraji came only because of him. Because of Mr. R. K. Mathur, the son of Mr. BB Mathur over there. And he did not tell there also to anybody that in which condition I am coming over here. But when he talked to Rambhia after that they came to know. Then Mr. Bibi Mathur said, Maharaj, it is such a serious condition. Why didn't you tell us that this thing is going on Then he immediately took him to a very senior doctor. He was the railway doctor and very expert. Very senior doctor. He was taken to him and he looked after him. Since from that day on he was giving the treatment. Shimaraji was living in the home of Mr. BB Mathur. And the doctor was coming every day. He was taking full care of Shrimaraji. So I was giving this example of Maharaj's nature of mercy. How now we always hear that the saints are very merciful and they come on. ThEse are only for the welfare of other people. But we see it many times in the life of Sri Maharaji. We always see that how much does he do for the devotees So this happened in Calcutta and Maharaji also went to Agra and Kanpur in Agra. Agra is also a very exhausted city for Mahaji because Mahaji spent a lot of time over there. Also, if you heard my previous lectures in LA, I have mentioned it that Janki Prasad Rais was living in Agra who brought Maharaj first time to the public. Before that Shrimaraji was living in Varsana Vrindavan, always lost in ecstasy. Then he requested that what are you doing here You definitely came to deliver us. So come out and teach us. Give something to us as well. So he brought Shimaraji to Agra. But after his death Shimaraji was not staying in his house. After that he started staying in the house of Madhur Prasad Mathur. He was also a relative of Janki Prasad Raj. You must have heard the name of a very senior Pracharak, I should say senior most Pracharak Sahshariji. He was the father of Sahariji. When Maharaj went to the house of Madhavasaji for the first time, same day Sachiriji came from the hostel after finishing her studies. When she came over there, she saw Shrimaraji was there and lots of other people were there. Satsang was going on. She didn't like it because she didn't have any faith in Sadhusandh Baba, etc. She had an impression in her mind that all these Sadhus are fake, they are impostors. And on top of that, Shrimaraji was not even looking like a saint because he was wearing only white dress. No Tilak. His hair were also small like the other men. There was no sign of any saint in his attire. So she was thinking, he is not a saint and he was very young. He was telling his father as well. Now why did you call this kind of saints over here There's no benefit. And he was trying his best to make her understand that. You should know that. No, he is very knowledgeable. He's a very great saint. Attend her Keertans. Then you will know that. Who is he then No, I don't like KEtan. She was very intellectual and very logical. She could not believe anything without any logic. This was her nature. So she didn't believe. Speculate. Shrimaraji also like the other saints of present time. But one day when Ketana was going on in her home, she came in the hall when she came and she saw Maharaj sitting there. And Keetan was going on. So everybody's eyes were closed. Everybody was trying to do Ruptian. Many of them were shedding tears. And Sri Maharaji was also doing Ketan. He was also sheding tears. When she saw all that, then she felt, this kirtan is little different from the Kirtans. So far I have attended. It's not the common Keertan. Here I am seeing that there is some devotion. And I was searching this kind of thing for a long time. And then she looked towards Maharaji. She was thinking, what kind of saint is he He is so young, so thin. His hair are also English cut. He doesn't look like a saint. But I don't know what is happening to me that he is attracting my mind very fast. When I looking towards the saint, I feel like I am very close to him. I feel like I am not seeing him for the first time. I feel like I know him for a very long time. I don't know why is it happening And my mind is getting more and more enchanted towards him. Why is it happening She was thinking like that. And then she decided that I should sit in the Ketan today. She came over there just to see because his father said that he should come in the Sassan. She came there for 510 minutes, but it took five to ten minutes only in this kind of thinking. And then she sat down there and she completed the whole. She was sitting there in the entire kirtan and she was very much impressed. And she felt that some devotional feeling are rising in her heart as well. So her faith in Maharaji started in that way. But after a couple of days, Shrimaraji went somewhere else. So Maharaji was not there though. But as she said, every day she was seeing Maharaji in dream and he was giving answer to all her questions. She said, my mind was so much arguing that every time the question after question were coming in my mind and whatever questions were coming in my mind, Sri Maharaj was giving answer to them every day in dream. So it happened for around one month after that, Maharaji came again to Agra. And when he came, Agra, what he did, he wrote something in 15 pages and gave it to Sachirijaya. Her name was Daya Mathur. At that time, he gave those pages to Dayaji. She saw there were 20 questions which were in her mind. And Maharaji gave the answers of those 20 questions in writing to her. She said, after that, all my doubts were resolved. I never had any doubt. And after that she started following Shrimaraji fully. And in 1966, Shimaraji gave her attire of Sanyas and he changed her name as Braja Sahachariji. Before that, Sahariji was the principal of Murari Ral Girl Sintra College of Agra. When she was principal, Shrimaraji was often making the program of picnic. And she was arranging the bus of her school. And Shimaraji liked to eat Dal Bhatti very much, especially in picnic, he liked Dalbati. So every time she was arranging to cook Dalbati over there and she was calling the bus from her school, she was arranging everything. And her nature, the nature of Sachirji was very good. She was very, very simple hearted, very jolly. Whenever somebody was talking to Sachirji, she was making them laugh all the time, because she was the principal. And her nature was also very polite, very good. That's why when the Sadhana started in Mangar, Shri Maharaji gave her the position of class teacher. So she was arranging everything very well. Sometimes when Lasasangi was not obeying, they are doing something wrong. And she was scolding because she was aged also at that time and she was scolding. But whenever she was scolding, her language of scolding was so know if you listen to the language of her scold. Everybody was laughing. And she was also laughing at the end. So everybody was laughing with her. Maharaji liked Sher Shari a lot. Many times in the evening, SRi Maharaji was reading some Sher the Urdu poetry, Mahaji was reading them. And Satchiriji was also very much interested in Sher Shari. So sometimes Maharaj was telling Hojai. Then Shastriji was reciting one share. And after that, in the answer of that share, Maharaj was reciting another sheer. Then she was answering Maharaj's share. Then Maharaji was again answering her share in that way. For 20 minutes, 30 minutes, the competition of Share Shari was going on. Everybody was enjoying. And the beauty was that whatever Sashiriji was saying, Maharaji was saying much more stronger share than her. Then she was trying to say something stronger than that. Then Maharaj was saying stronger than that in that way. This kind of play was going on in the evening most of the time and everybody was enjoying a lot. So this agra is a land of many most important devotees. I talked about only before I talked about Janki Prasad Rais. And today I gave a brief introduction of Sahajiriji. One of the senior most pracharak. And actually, as a pracharak she was not the senior most. But as a Sasangi she was the senior most sanghi. Nobody was that old Sanghi as Sashiriji was. So there are many other Sasangis who became Pracharak. And who were very important devotees in the life of Maharaji. We'll talk about them later. The time is over now. Mulishri Mat Sadhguru Sarkariki J Lali laki ji ji.