So far we're talking about the victory of Maharaji as the best Jagadguru and how the devotees of the different cities celebrated it. We also see that Maharaj ji is so kind to his devotees that he never cares for. He never thought about his health or his own comfort. Rather, he has always been concerned about his devotees as he did in the episode of the hospital. Yesterday. We were talking about. After that we were discussing about the city of Agra which is also one of the most exalted city where Sri Maharaji stayed for a very long time. And in fact, the Prachar of Sri Maharaj started from Agra because the person who brought Shrimaji to the world was from Agra. And after that, the top class devotee of Maharaj Janibai, she also belongs. Actually she belongs to Mahu. There are many other devotees who belong to Agra. And yesterday I was talking about the senior most devotee Sri Maharaji. And she was a very senior Pracharak as well. Sahachari Jay. Although there are many devotees, many Pracharaks also which came from Agra. Now I am going to talk about one of the most important Pracharak of Agra whose name is well known to all of us. Her name is Manjari Didi Braju Manjari. Actually she belongs to Multan. But after partition she came with her family from Pakistan and she was staying in Agra. So according to her family tradition there was no trace of Bhakti in the family. They didn't know anything about Sri Krishna or Sri Krishna, Bhakti Guru, etc. But Manjariji had a natural Sanskar of Bhakti from his previous lives. That's why although she was living in Multan but somehow she had this kind of faith that chanting of the names of Sri Krishna would make me realize, God, I will be free from Maya. I will attain the ultimate goal of life. So when she came to Agra, she was going to the school that time as well. Secretly she was having the Mala all the time in her pocket. And even in the class she was chanting all the time, Krishna, Krishna, Krishna. She had no concept of Rupthyana, etc. That's why she didn't know that what she is doing and how should she do. But whatever she knew, she was just chanting all the time. And since her childhood she had one thought in her mind that I have to have a guru but I will not accept any human being as my guru. Sri Krishna himself should be my guru. Why Because she said that if any human being will be my guru. Then she will ask me many questions about me. And I don't want to give any answer to anyone about me. But if Sri Krishna himself will be my guru then he wouldn't ask any question. That's why she had in her mind firmly that I will not accept any human being as my guru. So she finished her studies. And by the way, she was studying in the same college where Sachiriji was the principal muraliral girls degree college. She completed her education of BA from there. And after that she was not interested in studying. She didn't want to study anymore. But her father was insisting. He wanted her to at least accomplish the master's degree. Because rest of all the family members were very well educated, very highly educated. So he wanted her at least to attain the degree of master in any subject. Because of her father, she decided to start her studies for master's degree in economics. She studied for a couple of months. After that she was not interested. She said, this subject is very boring. I don't want to do Ma in economics. Then she thought, what subject should I choose Somehow she chose Sanskrit language for the master's degree. And she used to go to a Pandit. His name was Gajanan Pandit. He was very famous teacher of Sanskrit in Agra. She was going to study over there. Once she was going to study to Gajanan. By the way, Sashiriji met on the way because she was the principal of her college. He stopped there. She greeted there. And then she asked her, where are you going Sachariji said, my guru is coming today and am going to welcome him. She said that although I had no respect for any guru or Sadhu, Mahatma, et cetera. Because she didn't want it to accept them as Guru. But as soon as she heard the word Guru, she said, I don't know what happened in my heart. Then I was extremely eager to go with her to see her guru. She asked, Can I also come with you Shashiji thought, she is a young girl. If I will take her to my guru, probably her parents will object. Why do you take my daughter to ascent That's why she said no. Today I am in hurry. Maybe in future, later on I will take you there. She was very much disappointed when she came home. All the time she was thinking about this. She was extremely restless to see Maharaj. She didn't know the name of Maharaj. She didn't know who is the Guru of Sachariji, where she was going. But secretly she was thinking as she was saying that I felt like it was an hidden invitation from Shimaraji. Because she was feeling, that is kind of implicit invitation from my Guru. She was very desperate to see Sri Maharaji. Until she did not see Sri Maharaji for next couple of weeks. She was very restless. She could not study, she could not do anything. And she was wondering that why I am so desperate to see that Guru. I don't even know him. I never heard his name, why I want to see him But she could not control herself. She wanted to see. After a couple of weeks, when Mahaji was staying in the home of Satsangi. His name was Vishambhar nad Paradwaj. Sachetji asked her that I am going in a Satsang today. If you want, you can come with me. She was ready immediately suggested, I want to come with you. When she went over there, she saw Maharaj sitting there. She sat down at the back and she was looking towards Shumayaji. Oh, so he is his guru. And she was wondering that why he is just a human being and why is he enchanting my mind so strongly There's something that I feel that I have seen him somewhere. She was thinking again and again, he is not new for me. I have seen him somewhere. She was trying to remind where did I see him But she could not recall it. But she was feeling that I have seen him. And she was also wondering why. What is so much enticement in him Why is he enticing me so much strongly But she controlled herself and she was sitting quietly. When the Sasung finished, she went from there and in home also. She was thinking that I went in many other Satsangs as well. That it was very different. It was full of devotion. I should go in this Satsang again after a couple of days. Maharaji asked, everybody was sitting in the Mahaji asked, Shakunta didn't come. Samsar Sanghi said, maharaj, we don't know much about Shakunta, but we know about her sister. Her sister is very good. Shrimaji said, no, Shakunta is good. He said, like Manjiriji's name was Shakunta Sardana. At that time, Bhaji said, Shakunta is good. And after a couple of hours she came over there. When she came, she sat down at the back again. Shrimaraji called her in the front row and he asked, what's your name She said, my name is Shakunta. That Shrimaraji's next question was, why did you change your subject She was surprised. How does he know that I changed my subject in a way. I was going to do MA in economics. Then I changed to Sanskrit. How does he know But she said, I don't know. I didn't like economics. That's why I changed. Then Shivahaji asked him, did you take subject Sanskrit in Ba as well He said, no. And you are not the Hindi student, you are not Hindu as well. She said, no, I'm Punjabi. Then how did you take Sanskrit How did you choose Sanskrit You never studied Sanskrit before. How it came in your mind that you chose the subject said, I don't know. I felt like having this subject for my MA degree. Then Shrimaji smiled and he said, you don't know about it. Because you did not change your subject, I changed your subject. You don't have idea that why did you change I have idea. It was done by me. Then she said, how can you do it I never met you at that time. I did not even know you at that time. You didn't come in my life at that. How do you say that you changed It is your idea. You think that I never met you, but I know you from past, many past lives. And she was surprised. And because it was her form idea that I have to choose Sri Krishna only as my guru. I won't choose any human being as my guru. Because he would not know about me. And he will ask many questions. I don't like that people should ask questions about my private life. She had a clue that he knows. How does he know everything about me She was thinking like that and getting impressed on Maharaj. Then Maharaj asked him that which book are you studying these days Then she said, I am studying bad. Mahai said, sing a shlok from Palbad. She was very much hesitant. She said, no, no Mahati, I don't remember very well. No. Just one slope. Then she started singing one shloke from Shishupalbad. Chayasamita Vadharitam pura Tata Shariram Bibhur Vivata Vaya Vampuman. When she recited this shlok. Then Shri Maharaj recited five six more shlokes of Shishupal Bhad. When she was not ready to recite the shlok then Mahaji said, Don't worry, none of them know Sanskrit. That's why you should not be worried. If you are singing something wrong as well, who will know Then she started singing in that way. She was little bit attractive towards Maharaj. And she was thinking that he looks like my guru. I feel like that he is my guru. But no, I will not accept him as my guru because he is a human being and I want only Sri Krishna as my Guru. Mahaji was giving clue to her again and again of his power of knowing everything. She was getting some hints because when she came next, then there was a person sitting there was also a very good Satsangyushumaji. His name was Divakar and he was asking some questions. Maharaj was not giving the answer to his question. Rather he was giving the answer of the questions of Manjari Didi. And he was saying that many people think that I will accept only God as my Guru, not a human being. But probably they don't know the God. God himself met them, but they are not recognizing. They should recognize because God himself would not say that I am God. But she should recognize with his qualities. She should have the power to recognize. She was listening. In that way. Sri Maharaji was giving answer to many of her questions through the conversation towards the other Satsangi. Gradually her faith in Maharaji was increasing. When Maharaj went somewhere else one day, she was thinking, her mood was very, very off. And she was thinking that if Maharaj is God, then why, why is entrance me so much Why doesn't he show me that he is God And number one, if he is God, I just want one thing to be free from Maya. I want to realize God. Then why is he not helping me in realizing God If he is God, he should reveal himself. I should realize God. She was very extremely upset the same day. By the way, although Maharaji's program was somewhere else. But Shrimah ji came to Agra and he called especially. He called Manjiriji. She came over there. Other Sanghis were also sitting. She sat down in the last. Then Maharaj called her in front and she was very angry, in a very angry mood. Mahaji looked to her sir and said, out of control, high temperature, out of control. People didn't know what Mahaji was saying. And then Mahaji gave premrash Madhira and one pad was open. When Shrimaji gave her, she put it aside because she was angry. She took it and put it aside. She didn't even read what is written over there. And then Shimaraji said, you know one thing, no matter what you do and what you think, but you are going to be one of the most intimate devotees of myself. At the end when nobody will be in my contact. That time too only five people will be with me and you will one of them. So you have to go with me. Don't try to show this anger, et cetera. And if you think that why I am not helping you in realization of God, I cannot do it. You have to be a deserving soul for that first. And to be a deserving soul you have to increase your intentness to see God. That will purify your mind. And after that only you can see God. It's not a play that any Mahapurush or God will enable you to realize God with your dirty heart. So far your heart is not pure because you have some attachments in this world as well. You have to increase your intentness to see God. Somehow she understood everything that day and her mind was very clear that now on he is my Guru and he will definitely fulfill my desire of realization of God. Then in 1962 Shimaraji wrote a letter to his father. His father didn't know Hindi. Maraji wrote a letter to him in Urdu saying that I am going to give the position of my Prachadak to your daughter if you are agreed. He also gave a very nice answer and said I am very fortunate that my daughter is going to do such a sublime thing. So there is no problem from my side. And after that Maharaji gave her a copy of around thousand Shlokes to memorize them. Since then she started her studies as a prachara. Before that as well. Just to give her a clue that I know everything. Whatever you think in your mind. Maharaji was in Varanasi. There was Ashangi. Her name was Premdha Sharma. She was the head of the Department of Music. Shrimaraji was staying over there when she heard Shrimaraji is there. And she was very desperate to see Sri Maharaji. She just came to know Maharaj Varanasi in the university campus. In the house of Pream Lata Sharma, the head of the Department of Music. She thought that much address is enough to reach Maharaji. She left for Varanasi. She came at the railway station at 04:00 in the morning. She stayed there for a couple of hours so that it will be little more morning light. After that she came there with Ricksha and she said to Riksha that take me to the house of Prem Ratha Sharma, head of the Department of Music. She brought the rickshaw in the university campus. And then she said, take me to the house of Premlata Sharma. He said, how can I take you like this Tell me the address of Premlata Sharma. He said I don't know the address. You can ask. She is the head of the department of Music. So everybody would know her. Because she had no idea that how big the campus of University of Varanasi is. So he was taking her in all the streets for 2 hours. He was asking everyone do you know Prem Latasharma Do you know Prem Latasharma There are many Premlata Sharma which Premata Sharma Are you talking about They said no. At last she said, he said daddy Sha said see wherever you say I will drop you now and let me go because I am holding you for 2 hours. I cannot do more than that. As soon as he said Manjarjay saw Maharaj was running. He was coming towards the same side he was with his running shoe and he used to run in the morning. So he was coming towards the rickshaw. She was very happy and she saw Maharaj is coming towards the rickshaw. He came up to the riksha. He didn't say anything to Manjiriji. He said to Rikshawala come behind me. And then she was happy. She said yes, just go behind him. And the Rikshawala was following Sri Maharaji. When Maharaj came home and he asked her that you had no address and why did you come here If I was not going to run at this time then I knew that you run at this time. That's why I came here. I said, don't you know that this is not the time of my running Today I woke up late by the way everything is by the way Maharaj is. He said, by the way I woke up late today and that's why I'm running late that's why you found me. Otherwise it was impossible to find me over here. So Mahaji gave a clue again that I know everything whatever you are doing and just to increase her faith. And after that when she became Pracharak she was proven to be very very good Pracharak. She started her prachar from Agra and after that all over India, many places she was doing her prachar. And Maharaj used to stay in Agra many times for one month, two months, three months, four months. Once Shrimahji was staying over there. There was Sanghi Sushilaji in the house of Sushilaji. Shimhaji was staying for three months. So she arranged some money because Maharaj was going to stay over there for three months. And many Satsangis were also coming from the different city. There were lots of expenses so she borrowed some money from someone and now the time was coming when she had to return that money. But still she was spending. She was not getting any money from anywhere by the way, Shrimaraji came in her room and there was a chair. Mahaji sat down on the chair. Manjaji sat down on the floor holding the charan of Shrimaraji in her lap. And then she said, she was laughing though, but she said to Maharaji, Maharaji, tell me one thing. Today I have a question. How can I worship. Mahaj said, what Why would you worship Kuber Yeah, I want to worship Kuber. Mahaji said, don't you know Kuber is the servant of the devotees of Sri Krishna Why would you worship Kubir Mahaji put it off and didn't say anything. And after some time, after 1015 minutes, Shimaji took off. It was the garment of roses. He took it off and threw in the lap of Manjiriji. She will worship Kuber saying that Mahaji went in his room. After he went, she was thinking that Maharaj gave me this Mala. And he said, she will worship Kuber. Maybe there is something in this Mala, I should keep it. So she kept it in the Almari. After a couple of months, when the date came, when she had to return the money to the person, by the way, a person came over there and he gave a big donation to her. He said that I was listening to your lectures. I'm very much impressed on you. That's why I want to give some donation to you. And he gave exactly the same amount of donation which she had to pay to that person. As soon as he gave that money, she immediately remembered, oh, this is the same day when I had to return the money and Maharaj gave me this Mala. Let me see, because she wrote, Mahaji gave me this Mala. On this day. When I said to Maharaj like this, then she saw the mala. The date was written over there. It happened in her life. And she was very much amazed that I said to Maharaj that I want to worship Kuwer. But he gave me everything. So Maharaj, it is the experience of most of the sasangis of Sri Maharaji that even the most opulent, the rich people who come in the context of Shrimaraji, after some time they also become like an ordinary person. Because Maharaj's way of taking Seva is very different from all other saints. Everything, whatever Maharaji does is very scientific. Whoever comes in the context of Ji, he keep on taking Shiva. If you are coming for the first time in the context of Shimaraji with $5,000, very happy. I am going to see Maraji for the Sasmasa first time, I will donate him 5000 he will be very happy. But what he will do before you donate him he will give you some Seva which will cost more than $5,000. It will cost 7000 $8,000. So what will happen You don't have more than 5000. You will give the $5,000 to Shimaraji. But instead of having this ego I gave $5,000 to Shimaraji. Maraji was very happy with my Seva will come. Oh my Guru wanted me to do this. Shiva. It was costing $7,000. I had only $5,000. I gave him only 5000. So you will come with the humble feeling. Next time when he will come with 10,000 he will give you the saver of 15,000. In that way he will take money from you to make your life simpler. Why Because if the money is with you anything which is material if it is in your possession then you will have attachment with that. Especially Artho Narthasya Karanam. The wealth is the main reason of unearth your downfall. So Shimaraji never said to anyone that you have to leave your home become a Babaji. Rather he keeps them in their family and keeping in the family they make all of them Babaji because they have to decrease their needs. When they have to donate, when they have to do Seva of Maharaji then naturally they will cut their needs. Only then they can save the money. So they will keep on cutting their needs and in that way they will become Babaji living and at home. So Shimaraji helps. We all experience that you will never have lack of money. Whenever you need anything by the grace of Maharaj you will get it. But you will never have surplus money. Otherwise the ego will come and you will be tempted to spend that surplus money in buying some material thing. If you buy anything which is material definitely you will be attached with that as well. And Maharaj wants to reduce your attachment in the material world. Only then you can get attached to God. She realized it. I want to say that Manjariji. She was a very important Pracharak. She is still and Maharaj. Since she became Pracharak Maharaji gave the duty of kitchen as well and she is doing very successfully for a very very long time. Now I will go to the further event in the life of Sri Maharaji that after being Jadgurutam in 1964 Shimaraji thought about more progress of devotees. He is always concerned about the progress of the devotees. He worked very hard day and night for the welfare of the devotees. So he observed one thing, that he was giving such a high philosophy and he was doing so much labor with his devotees. But because they were doing Sadhana hardly for a couple of hours every day and rest of the time they were busy in complying their responsibilities in the material world. There were many response. Everybody is having some responsibilities in this material world. So they were paying more attention to the responsibilities. That's why they were hardly getting some time for Sadhana. And if they were doing some Sadhana sincerely, for 1 hour, two hour, and after that they were getting involved in the material things. So they were earning a little and spending a lot. So Maharaj was trying to find out a way so that they can have continuous Sadhana for some time. Because it is necessary. When we start our Sadhana, it is necessary to do it for a long time. Ati Shayaragana Karajo koi Analaprakata Chandanat used to say that if you are, it is well known fact that if you rub two pieces of wood, the fire comes out from the wood. But if you are rubbing two woods for five minutes, then you keep it aside, do something, then come back again. Again you start rubbing, then again you keep aside, come after half an hour, again you start rubbing. It will never create the fire. But if you keep on rubbing, then even that wood is a sandalwood which is naturally cool. Even then the fire will be created from the wood. In the same way. If we start Kirtan, generally, I see when we do some kirtan after half an hour, people get bored. They want change in Kirtan. Shivaji. In the beginning, whenever the kirtan was going on, one Kirtan was going on at least for one or 2 hours. My father was starting one Kistan Apad Bhajan at 12:00 and he was finishing at 04:00. One Bhajan. He was going for 4 hours. And Maharaji liked it. He says that when you start doing Keith and you can see it, you can experience it. When you start some Kirtan, after half an hour, you start enjoying that Kirtan. But when the time of enjoying that Kirtan comes, we stop it, we change the Kirtan. Then you cannot have the full rapture of the kirtan to have the full benefit of the kirtan. Keep on singing. Keep on singing. When you keep on singing for a longer time, then you will have the rush of that Ketan. So Maharaj wanted us to do Ketan for the whole day so that we can earn something with some significant earning it was important. The Shivahji planned Asadana for 15 days. When for 15 days being away from your family and all other responsibilities of the family. If you go in isolated place and do Sadhana since morning till night, then after 15 days your heart will be so pure, will earn a lot. And that will help you for the entire year to increase your Sadhana. That's why Shimaraji decided to have a Sadhana for 15 days. And he selected a place. Now that selected place was Brahman Ghat. Brahmand Ghat is a place in Braj, in Kokul. Mahaji selected Brahman Ghat. Why Because number one, it is an isolated place, not busy tirth, it's not a busy place. It's an isolated place, very quiet. And it is the Leela Asthali of Sri Krishna. It's a sacred place. That's why Maharaj is selected Brahman Ghat. It is in Braj. That's why people will be more interested in going to Braj than they will go to Mahawan. And they will go to Brahmanghat, they will be interested. And that is a quiet place. There was no shop or any market or any visiting place there in around 3 miles area. That's why Shrimaraji selected that. So people would not go anywhere. JeSse Uri Jahazuko Panchi Puni Jahaz peawe. When a bird is sitting on air and it wants to go because that bin is going in the water, where would it go It had to come back again on the same ferry. Because there is no place to go in the same way. When you would have no place to go anywhere, then what will you do Come in the Satsang hall and do Satsang. This is what Mahaji wanted us to do. And it was the Sadhana. This Sadhana was. You can call Auster Sadhana. But Mahaji made very strict rule for that first day. When Sadhana started, Shri Maharaj said, See, we are going to have this Sadhana. And there is a strict rule that nobody will talk to each other. If anyone will be found conversing with each other, I cannot tolerate at all and I will send him back immediately. And number two, there is a schedule and everybody has to follow it. There are two things, two main things in that schedule. That number one, you have to come on time in Sadhana. You have to sit in the Sadhana when Sadhana is going on. And number two, you have to reach for the meals on time. Two main rules were there at the time of rest. Either you take rest sleep in your room or you do your Sadhana somewhere where nobody is disturbed. Because the place which Maharaj chose, it was a very huge place. It was like a fort. And it was secured with big iron gate. And there were many buildings in one campus, there were many buildings. And it was beautiful, with many kind of flowers, gardens, creepers, et cetera, because it was very big. So in one building, the ladies were living in one building, the men were living in one building, the pracharaks and some other workers were living. And there was, in the center, there was one building of two rooms where Maharaj was living. Maharaj alone with two boys, Subhash Singhal and Babulal, his driver, with two people. Sri Maharaji was living in that room. And nobody was allowed strictly, nobody was allowed to go in the room of sri Maharaji. Nobody was allowed to talk. Nobody was allowed to go in the room of Sri Maharaji. That time, the Sasangis, they were very free with Maharaj. All the time they are talking and laughing, having jokes with shrimp. There was no distance between Maharaj and Satsangis. But when Maharaji made this rule in Brahman Ghar, everybody was thinking that, how can we live without talking to Sri Maharaj But Shrimaji, in the morning time, after the breakfast, there was a gap. Maharaj was going in the rooms of everyone. He was sitting with them in the same way as he used to sit in their respective cities before. He was talking and making them laugh and asking them if everything is okay. So only the time of 15 minutes with Shimaraji was enough. Everybody was very happy to see Maharaji in their room. So the Sadhana, for Sadhana, the buildings were around that area. And in the center there was a big land and a big tent was made for Sadhana. So everybody was going to do the Sadhana over there in that hall, platform was made for Maharaji, around 4ft high. And on that, this kind of court was there. Shrimaji used to sit over there and Satsanghi was sitting on the floor. There was some thin kind of carpet. And they were sitting there doing Sadhana. So there was a strict rule that everybody had to come there but the Sadhana. Because Maharaj already announced that if you want to attain the full benefit of this Sadhana, it's not ordinary Sadhana, it is most exclusive Sadhana. And if you will follow the rules, external and internal. External rules which I talked, which I told you now that come on time and no conversation with each other. An internal role you have to do Rupthian, you have to shed tears all the time. All the time. Think about God when you are going from here to there. Even then say Radhiradi, don't talk anything, don't say anything, don't think anything. If you will live like this, then you will achieve something which will be very, very significant. And Sri Maharaj started saying this, the benefit of this Sadhana. Before the Sadhana started, he took a tour of all India. He went in all the cities and he talked about this Sadhana very highly. So everybody was very much eager to reach in the Sadhana. The Sadhana had to start from 16 October. And the people reached over there on 15th in the evening. Everybody was there. As soon as we reached there, so far, Maharaji was not there. He had to come later. And Sadhana was going to be started from the next day. But when the Sasangis reached there, the atmosphere was so serene. Everybody experienced the ambience of divine loveless. Everybody experienced that we have come in a divine place. And there were a few Sasangis. As soon as they entered Ha Krishna Haradhe saying like that, they started crying loudly. They got unconscious right over there. Somebody was standing under the tree and shedding tears, singing Kare Kunjalatanatari. Someone was just crying and singing. Some Bhajan towards that side somebody. From that side somebody was. They were rolling in the dust of Brahmanghar. In that way. As soon as the people reached, they had an experience, a divine experience that they have come to the place which is completely different from the rest of the world. And every day the Satsang was going on with the tears. Sri Maharaji was also giving beautiful lectures every day on practical Sadhana. Sometimes he was giving the lectures on practical Sadhana, sometimes on love, sometimes on Bhakti, sometimes of Gopip. In all those subjects, Shrimah was speaking. And when Maharaj was speaking, sometimes the devotees were also crying. But the good thing which we enjoyed a lot, outside the tent there was a wall for security, there was a wall. And on that wall many peacocks were sitting. As soon as Maharaj was starting his lecture, many peacocks were sitting on the wall. And when Maharaj was saying something very deep, very touching, then the Sasangis, they were crying loudly. And on the other hand, the peacocks were also starting swelling like they are also saying Balihar, Balihar, Balihar. It was so nice to see in the daytime when it was the free time, the people were going in the. There were some forest like things as well. The potions and they were going over there and they were doing their Sadhana. Nobody was wasting their time. It was a very, very good experience. Because everybody was following the rules. Nobody was conversing with each other. Everybody was coming on time. Because Maharachi was also coming in the hall on time. That's why everybody was coming on time into the hall. Once Maharaj was describing, he was elaborating in that pad. Shrimaraji was explaining the love, the selflessness of Gopi. Love. Because Uddhaji went to teach them about the Vedanta philosophy. But the Gopis taught them about love. Because when Uddhaji was teaching the philosophy of Vedanta, the Gopis were laughing like anything. And then they said that. Who are you talking After a long time, Sri Radharani indicated that. Enough, now show him. Because Lord Krishna sent him here for our grace to attain the property of love. He is a Gyani. He doesn't know what is love. He thinks that there is only one Brahm who is omnipresent. So let him tain the purpose of his visit over here. Then when Uddhaji looked towards this side, he saw there was a Gopi. And Sri Krishna was going behind him. He saw towards this side a Gopi. Sri Krishna was trying to please him. He saw it there. There is a Gopi and Sri Krishna is there. He saw that there was the bank of the Yamuna River. And a Gopi was saying to her friend that sake. I came here to fetch water. But when I was going with my picture of the water, it started raining. So it was very slippery. When I tried to go, I fell. Then the poor Sri Krishna came there. When he said, poor Sri Krishna came there and he helped me to get up. Then Udoji said, my Brahm has become poor boy. Over here they are saying Sakiho to gai Jamuna jalupe sokah koho birobipatipari Keharai ke kali gata nai itan gagarashadhari Rapato Pagaghatiri Chirajiva nandoko baro gahibah Garibanando Kobaro he should live a very long life. Because that poor guy came over there. And he helped me to get up again. The Gopis are saying that one Gopi is going and Lord Krishna is following. Give me some yoghurt. He was surprised that how come my Brahm is begging for a little bit of Yogurt. In that way the Gopis showed that your Brahm cannot go leaving this Prindavan. This is the land of love. He came on this earth only for love. He cannot go anywhere at all. It's your illusion that he has gone from here. When he tasted that love by the grace of the Gopis then he came to know that I was so foolish. I thought that I am a great Gnani but I am not a gynae. So Maharaj was explaining this. When he came he saw the condition of the Gopis. All the Gopis were crying. They had become so thin they were not eating. And even the whole Madhuan became black because of the fire of their separation. Nobody can imagine the panks of the separation of the Gopis. Shrinarani says Aurwastomatapi Katurapi Katham Durbale Nurasami Tapa Prado Haribirahja Sahiyate the heat of the suppression of Shyam Sundar is stronger than the heat of the sun. I don't know. My heart is very very tender. But how this heart is bearing that heat of his separation And you know Nishkranta, if even the Dhuma Chatapi, Nishkranta Chevadhya said, Dhuma Chatapi she's saying if not the heat, not the fire of separation Just a particle of the smoke of that fire comes out. If the little bit, little part of smoke of that power comes out from my heart then Brahmanam Sakikulamapi, Jualaya Jajwaliti then the innumerable Brahmans, the innumerable universes will be burnt out. They will turn into ashes just in a second. And these copies were bearing all that. So when Uddhaji was going to leave he also attained that Rav that time. What happened with Uddhaji Pray Merasu Chaki Kaham. When he came he was very arrogant. I am Gyani. But when he was going he had no inkling of his physical body. He wanted to put his leg here and he was going there. He was also. When he was going to leave, the Gopis asked him, UddHao, now you are going back to Sri Krishna. Yes. And naturally he will also ask you about us. And you will also be willing to say something about us. So tell me, if Sri Krishna will ask you about us then what will you say Buddhaji said, don't worry, I will describe everything. I will describe how you are living, how hard life are you spending over here without Sri Krishna When he said like that then the Gopi said, Uddha, we gave you the lesson of love so much. But you are still Buddha. You learned nothing. Why would you say this that we are burning in the fire of separation. We're not happy. Don't you know he's your Sakha And you have no idea that how soft his heart is. His heart is softer than the softness. If he will listen to about our distress, about our sorrows, then he will also be distressed. So don't tell him like that. If he asks you how are the GOpiS, say they are very well, they are very happy. And if he still asks you more about us then you are ganning. You should know that. What should you tell to Sri Krishna Keep one thing only in your mind. That is the main point of love. If you have learned love from here, from us and you should know one thing that say anything to Sri Krishna which would not let happen any change in his smile. He should constantly smile, he should be happy, keep this thing in her mind and then talk about us. So Maharaji was describing. This kind of elaboration was done many times. Sometimes Shimaraji was elaborating other parts also. Like at 04:00 Janishi Maharaji used to elaborate and sing one Bhajan. It was most favorite Bhajan of Sari Dhuribhari, Hari Dhusari, Thoribari, Hariya Kandelakuti, Kamari Kari, Laturaji, Manabha. Everybody wanted to listen to this Bhajan from Maharaj's mouth. And once Maharaj was explaining the meaning of this Bhajan. And he was explaining that Sri Krishna in the morning she was going to gaze the cows with lots of his friends who were cowhead boys. And they had also their cows. So lots of cows and lots of cowhide boys were going to gaze the cows in the forest. That time when Sri KrIshna was going to the forest to gaze the cows, the Gopis, they were coming out from their houses with some or the other excuse. Some Gopi was coming with an excuse that I am going to sell the Yoghurt. Some GopI was coming with an excuse that I am going to fetch water. Some GopI was coming with an excuse I am going to Yamnaji to take bath. And there were some Gopis. They could not make any excuse. So they were standing on the top of their houses. So they can see when Sri Krishna was leaving towards the forest. So whatever they were seeing at that time when Sri KrIshna was going, they were imbibing the beauty of Sri Krishna. And with that memory whole day they were spending with a great difficulty. Each and every moment was spent by them like an error. In the evening. Shyam Sundar is coming when she come. When Shyam Sundar goes at that time, the cows are in front of Sri Krishna and he goes behind them. Sorry. When he goes in the morning, then the cows are coming behind him because they didn't know that in which forest we have to go today. So wherever Sri Krishna was going, all the Sakas were following him. All the cows were following him. But when he was coming back from the forest, then the cows were going ahead and Lord Krishna was going behind them when he was coming. Thousands of cows and thousands of cowhide boys are following Sri KrIshna. So their foot dust is flowing and it was coming on the body of Sri KrIshna as well. So the particles of the dust on his beautiful Blue form was looking like the thousands of small pieces of diamond. They were shining like anything. And he was coming Dancing. He was bending his knee and jumping and dancing. He was coming from the forest. The cows were going ahead. The SAKhas were going beside Sri KrIshna. So when he comes from there, then he is doing one more thing. He is playing with his flute. Why Shri KrIshna never does anything for his own pleasure. The purpose of each and every work of Sri Krishna is only the pleasure of his devotees or the welfare of the devotees. So he knows the Gopis are waiting since morning for me. They are desperate to see. They are so restless to see Me. That's why it was like a signal when he was playing the flute. The GOpis will hear the sound of the flute and they will know. Now Sri KrIshna is coming back and they will try to stand somewhere. According to their convenience, they can come out. That's why he was playing the flute. When he was playing the flute and Gopis was standing there. Then sometimes some saints were also coming on the way. They were touching his feet and many other people were standing to see Sri Krishna. Gopis were also standing when they were seeing Sri Krishna. Now hE's coming. That time they say to Sri Krishna, Sri Krishna, we wait for you for the whole day desperately. When you come in the evening, it's extremely pleasant for us. But we get annoyed on Brahma. Extremely. We feel very much anger against Brahma. What did he do Why are you annoyed to Brahma HE said, Brahma is so foolish. That number one, in this big body he made only two eyes. Secondly in eyes also he made the lid. So when you come thrutter Yugayatwamapashatam the Bhagwa says, Atatiyad bhawani kanan kutila kunta lam shrim chate Jar Udikshatam Pakshmakridrisham they say, when we see, we want to invite your beauty to our content. But again and again the eye blinks. When the eye blinks in that duration, blinking of eye, that duration is so untolable for us because we are deprived from Yodarshan. Imagine the love of the Gopis. Eye blinking is just like this. But that duration is also unbearable for the Gopis. That's why they curse Brahma. Why did he make only two eyes Plus he made the lid If he was wise, then he had to make the eyes in each and every pore of the body so that we could see Sri KrIshna fully. Maharaji was explaining this kind of things in his sO. And sometimes he was giving the lectures on the practical aspects of devotion as well. The Sadhana was exclusive. I've never seen such A good SAdhana where nobody was speaking at all. Nobody was allowed. And Maharaj was giving the warning again and again that if I found anyone speaking to anyone, then I will not tolerate it at all. And he did it also. There was one lady, she just said something to someone. And Mahaji saw him talking. He immediately told her, you go back. She was trying to explain a lot. Mahaji was just asking this thing. Mahaji said, no matter what you were asking, it was my order that you will not talk him in a word. And why did he speak Go back to your city and to put forth the ideal. Once Bharavaya, Maharaj's own son, he came late in Sadhana. Mahaji told him also to go back just to put an ideal that he can say it to his son also. That all other people, they were very cautious about it. So this Sadhana, the Sadhana of Brahman Ghat was exclusive Sadhana. And when the Sadhana finished, everybody was saying that we never experienced this kind of Sadhana. Because in the morning it was at the bank of the river Yamuna. In the morning everybody was going to have bath and Yamuna river. And after that everybody was doing Sadhana here and there. And first time it happened that they were following their strict rules. With the strict rules of not speaking to each other and not wasting any time anywhere. They had a very good experience. They thought they experienced that. Our Sadhana is increased a lot. And when Maharaj came in the cities again after this Sadhana, everybody was admiring that Maharaj. We never had this kind of Sadhana. We never imagined that we will be benefited so much. Then Maharaj said that I want this kind of Sadhana everywhere. But to do it we need our own place. So all the Sarsangi said Maharaj then we should have. Why should we not have our own place Where then discussed the many Satsangis suggested many places. Eventually Shrimaji said for Sadhana we need an isolated place where there is no restriction. Where there is no problem. It should be our own place. So the mangar will be the best place. So it was decided that now in Mangar will make a Big Sadhana Hall. And every year Sadh will go on there immediately. It was decided immediately. Mahaji ordered to have the receipts and donation started within 1 hour. Sorry. Within one year the donation was completed and the Sadna Bhavani started building. And in 1966 Nasadna started in that hall. So it was a small description of few Leelas of Harikata Ananta. They are numero Leelas of Shrimaraji. And in fact even Sheshna also come with his thousands of mouths. He cannot talk about all the Leelas of Buddha. My intellect, my knowledge, my capacity, everything is very very limited. Whatever I remember about Maharaji so far I explained it. And if there is any mistake or anything which you think that it was not correct. So I beg pardon for that. And whatever you enjoyed I think it will be my Shiva. I am very thankful to you to listen to all this him ji.