Yesterday we were talking about that, how the title of Jagadgurutam was given
to Sri Maharaj. Although it was not necessary for such of saints to have any
title like Jagadguru or Jagad Guru Tam, etc. But keeping in mind the welfare of
public, it was indispensable. At this age. At the age of Kalyug, 99% impostors
were prevalent and they were giving wrong knowledge to the public and to just
to solve their own selfish motives. They were misleading them, saying that if
you do this Puja, this ritual, this Yagya, this Hawan, only then you can attain
bliss. They were not giving any knowledge which was really written in the
Scriptures. Not only that, even the most popular saints were also not revealing
the knowledge given in our scriptures. Rather, they were speaking on conduct,
behavior and general problem of material beings only in such a pitiful
condition. For Sri Maharaji, it was indispensable to reveal the true form of
dharma, to reveal the real knowledge of the Vedas and the other scriptures. And
to do that, it was compulsory to call all the saints and to prove that their
knowledge is not authentic. It's not recommended by our Vedas. And he has to
reveal that what is the true knowledge as well. Only for this purpose, he had
to do the conventions, many lectures and all these things. When Shimaraji went
to Kashi Vidrath Parishat, only then all the top class 500 scholars admitted
that we were julieted. Our knowledge was not authentic. They got the right
direction and solution of many questions in their mind through the lectures of
Sri Maharaji. When those top scholars of India admitted that his knowledge is
authentic, it is divine, it is irrefutable and everybody must follow it. Only
then it was very clear that Maharaji's knowledge was authentic. Now he could
speak anywhere. He could impart that knowledge anywhere. Otherwise these
imposters were going to prove that because only one person is talking like
this, only one person is saying that whatever we are saying is wrong. And
whatever he is saying is right. That's why majority is always right. That's why
this person is wrong. Now nobody could say anything because Maharaji was giving
the instances, the quotations of all thy scriptures on every point. So every
point of Shimaraji was irrefutable. And it was accepted by the 500 top scholars
of India as well. They realized that this knowledge cannot be earned. When
Shrimaraji was giving the quotations of the Vedas and other scriptures, the way
he was pronouncing them, they could obviously see that it is not that he has
memorized them and he's feeling any kind of stress in quoting them. Rather,
they were feeling that the veritable scriptures are standing right in front of
him and they were rendering their own services directly from the mouth of Sri
Maharaj. It was realized by them and they announced it publicly. After that it
was decided that he will be given the title of Jagadguru. According to the
tradition, the title of Jagadur was to be given. But because the knowledge of
Sri Maharaji was much more superior than the knowledge revealed by the previous
four Jagadgurus. That's why they decided to add something with his title to
give more honor to him. And that's why they added the word Uttam best Jagatguru
for Shrimaraji. And he was given a list of some rules, etc. It happened on the
auspicious day of Makar Sankranti, which always falls on 14 January. After
having this title of Jagad Guru, rather the best Jagad Guru, Shimaraji first of
all went to Pratapgar, as I said yesterday, although this title was given on
7th day and it was announced after the 6th lecture. But Shimaraji already told
to his followers, who were with Shimaraji to give a telegram that I have become
Jagadguru and they should start the preparation to welcome me as Jagadguru. And
they started all the preparations over there as well. They heard when this
telegram went to Pratabgarh to Mr. Mahabane that Maharaji won this title and he
has become Jagad Guru. And he is reaching there on 16th because the title was
given on 14th. Shimahaji has been proven so knowledgeable that all the top
scholars surrendered unanimously and they accepted that his knowledge is
supreme. But sometimes Shimaraji behaves like a child. It is his nature. So the
question arises that when should we go to Pratabgarh Sri Maharaji said I should
not go directly from Varanasi, from Kashi. Why Because the trains which
directly go to Pratagar, they are all passenger trains. If Jagadguru will reach
with a passenger train, then it won't look good. I should go in some
pasttigious train where there is AC first as well. So when I will reach, then
people will welcome you. Jagadguru is coming with the Express mail train and is
coming in AC first. Sar Sanghis were laughing on this talk of Shimaraji. But
from there Pratapgar was nearer. But Shimaraji went to Lucknow first, just to
catch that mail train. And from there he came in AC first. So when in Pratapgar
people heard that Shimaraji won and Shimaraji is coming here. So it took no
time to spread this news all over and from all the cities of India, people
started coming to Pratapgar because they were extremely happy. They were so
much hopping and bobbing, like they were celebrating the victory of Maharaj, as
if they attained the victory, they have become Jagadguru. They were telling
everybody, you know, that my Guru, he has become Jagadguru. They were very
happy. And it is also, somehow it is right also. The victory of Maharaj is the
victory of all his loving devotees too. They were telling everybody that, don't
tell that your Guru is like that. He is your Guru now. He is the guru of all of
you because he has become Jagad Guru. Jagadguru means what the perceptor of the
entire world. Don't say that he's my Guru. He is your guru as well. So they
were very happy and they were saying, everybody, that look, Sri Maharaji has
become Jagat Guru. And they were making all the preparations for welcoming Sri
Maharaj. So as it was already planned, they contacted there are some Keertan
Mandalis which were in Pratapka district, and some band parties. And they
prepared already around 50 girls. And they were suggested to have beautiful
Langadupatra with the Kalash. So these girls had to walk in front of the
chariot of Shrimaraji when the procession would go. So all the preparations
were made and it was announced in the city many times by Mike that Maharaji,
who has become Jagadguru, is coming on this date, at this time from this train.
And everybody is expected to reach the Pratabgar railway station to welcome Sri
Maharaj. So besides that, thousands of flyers were distributed and the big
posters were displayed many places so that everybody would know that the big
thing is going to be happened in Pratapgar. In that way, all the preparations
were made and the train had to reach at 04:00 at the railway station. Priy
Darshiji and Priya Shrinji were coming with Shrimaji and other people where
there are few prominent people. They were waiting at the platform to guard in
Shrimaji and a huge crowd was waiting outside the station that time, because
there were many Keertan mandalis and the band, and many people were there,
there was noises. Well, they were practicing, they were doing Keertan they were
dancing and band people were also practicing their band on the tunes of the
kirtan. So lots of noise was there. The entire station was looking like a thief
because nobody was saying anything else except the Kirtan and Kripaluji Maharaj
ki Jai et know everything was spiritual over there. So the station was
converted in a theater for a while. And many people were standing with the
flowers and the garlands to welcome Sri Maharaj. So, first of all, some people,
they welcomed Maharaj when Maharaji got off from his compartment, from the
train. And after that they escorted Maharaj and they brought outside where lots
of people were waiting for Shrimaraji in that crowd. There were some saints
also, because it was the planning that when Shimaraji would come, then a
procession will be taken from station through all the markets to the big ground
of college. At that ground a big stage was made. On the stage, a beautiful
throne for Sri Maharaji was made. And it was the plan. Then every days from
06:00 to 09:00, the lectures, the kathas and everything will go on. So some
saints, some Katha va chaks were also invited. So the saints were also waiting
over there who are going to speak in that small convention. You can say it was
the program. And when Maharaj came over there, everybody wanted to garland him
first. Everybody wanted to reach him first of all. But Sri Maharaj proceeded
towards the saints who were waiting for Maharaj. Maharaj embraced them and they
were also greeting Shrimaji and Maharaj were also greeting all of them. And
after that, many other people, they presented flowers, this and that. And the
entire station was echoing with Maharaj again and again, this jakkar was heard
at the station. It was looking very good, although I was not there, I just
heard because the children were not allowed and ladies were not allowed. So,
although I was very small, but I was not allowed to go over there. So I heard
about all these things. So all these things happened. And then Shri Maharaji,
there was a truck, and the truck was decorated beautifully like a chariot. And
on that chariot a beautiful throne was kept for Haraji. It was decorated nicely
with the lights and the flowers, etc. And when everything was set and the
people who wanted to greet Maharaj, the people who wanted to touch the feet of
Maharaj, the people who wanted to give some flowers of Shrimaji, everything was
done. And then Maharaj sat down on his seat. And after that, slowly, slowly,
the procession started because people were dancing and singing and the girls
were also following. They were also going with their Kalash. So the procession
was going slowly, and when it passed through all the markets, so in the markets
there was a street, and on both the sides there were shops. On top of the shop,
there were the residences of all the shopkeepers, the owners of the shops. So
the business people whose shops were there, they were standing on the street
with the flowers or the garlands, etc. There were few who were ready to do
Maharaj's arti as well. But a huge crowd of ladies was standing in the
balconies, and they were showering the flowers on Maharaj constantly. We were
also standing over there. We could see Maharaj only from the balconies. So all
the ladies were standing over there, and they were showering the flowers on
Shimharaji. And the men were standing on the street. They were doing Arthi.
Sometimes they were stopping the Church of Shimaharaji, and they were doing
Arthi. They were offering Mala, and some of them were doing Puja of Shimaharaji
in that way. The procession started around 430, and we reached over there, 730.
And then Shimaraji went directly on the munch where his seat was made. So when
he reached lots of people, they were singing and dancing for a long time. It
was hard to stop them somehow, by announcing again and again on the MIC, they
were stopped, and then they were requested to sit down on their respective
seats. So everybody sat down. After that, Shimaraji had to address the crowd.
Shimaraji spoke only for around 15 to 20 minutes because the light was gone.
There was no light, so the MIC was not working. Still, Shimaharaji spoke for
ten more minutes, that probably the light will, we will gain the light again.
But after ten minutes, Maraji spoke without light, without mic as well. The
most amazing thing was that around 50,000 people were sitting, and Shrimaraji
was spring without the MIC. But everybody could hear Shimaraji. He was speaking
little loudly, but no matter how loud you speak, your voice cannot go to the
50,000 people. But everybody was listening to Maharaji. And after that,
Shimaraji, because of the light, Shimhaji stopped his lecture and the other
programs of other scenes went on. I said yesterday that when Maharaji was given
the title of Jagadguru, at the same time he was also given a list of some rules
for Maharaj. Amongst all those rules, there was one rule that Maharaji, now on,
cannot stay in the house of any householdeR, any material being. He cannot stay
there either. He can stay in a mandir or in a dharmashala, or anywhere else.
But he cannot stay in a house. And Shimaraji was always staying in Pratabhar in
my house. Our house was the house of Sri Maharaji. He was like a member of that
house. But the Niyam was saying the rule which made for ji as Jagadguru, he
could not stay there. Secondly, there was also a rule. If any householder will
invite Shimaraji, he must not go without taking the dakshina of Rs100, minimum,
Rs100. Thirdly, he cannot eat food which is not cooked by a Brahmin. He can eat
only food cooked by a Brahmin. So two things were not matching with us. Number
one, it was a home. He had to come to a householder. Number two, my father,
although he was a very good devotee of Sri Maharaji, but he said, I will not
invite Maharaji with the Dakshina of hundred rupees. It is his home. It was his
home. It is his home. Whenever he would like, he will come. But I am not going
to invite him. With Dakshina of Rs100 or without Dakshina of Rs100, I will not
invite him. So we were very sad. We were thinking that, number one, he is not
going to invite. Number two, it is ruled that he cannot stay in the home of
householders. It means Maharaj would never come in our home. And secondly, we
were thinking, how would it look like Maharaj would stay in Dharmushala His
home is here. He always relished to stay over here for years. His home is here
and he will stay in Dharmushala. Because to Darshiji he was very strict. And he
said, Maharaj has to follow the rules. That's why he made all the arrangements,
very nice arrangements. In Dharmushala, we had a cook, he was Brahmin, he was
also there. He called him also there to cook food for Shrimaraji. And the food
for all other guests was also cooked over there, because Maharaji was going to
stay in the Dharamshala. So we were very sad to think that Maharaj, now it
seems Maharaj would never come to our house. But as soon as Maharaj's lecture
was finished, Maharaj indicated my father, let's Go. Anyway. Secretly, Maharaji
went behind that stage and with my father, he came home in the house. There was
no food that day because the food was prepared in Haramshala for everyone. And
our cook was also over there. But my father, he was saying, I will not go to
eat over there, I will eat at home. So he told to prepare Kichuri for him. So
only some khichri for my father was there. And all of us were supposed to eat
over there in Bharmashala where the langara was going to be held. But Maharaj
came with my father to home. And as soon as he reached there he said, I am very
hungry, give me something to eat. My father said, Mahaji, we didn't cook any
food at home today but I cooked some kitchen for me. If you like, I can give
the. Oh, that is the best food. Give me kitcheri. The Maharaji and my father,
they ate kitcheri in between. Everybody, there was a noise, everybody was
talking. Mahaji has gone where Maharaji's admiration was made in somebody. Some
people were thinking Mahaji went in Dharmashala but Priyankarishiji was there.
It means he didn't go to Dharmushala. Where did he go So everybody guessed that
Maharaji has gone with Mahabhaniji. It means he went to his house. So there
were some satsangis. They came from Belhabad, Lucknow, Agra, Kanpur, et cetera.
There were around 30 people. They all reached my house. And when we heard we
also immediately rushed towards our house. We saw Maraji was there. He had
taken already kitchen and I was sitting comfortably. Then Priya Darishiji came
over there and he said, Maharaji, what did you do You're not following the
rule. You're going against the rule. You cannot come in the house of a
household. Mahaji said, Rule are made for me. I am not made for the rules. Who
can bind me in the rule Let them make the rule. Whatever they make, I will go
according to myself. My home is the home of my devotees, the devotee, my loving
devotees. When they would want me to come into their home, I will stay over
there. And whatever they will give me to eat, I will eat that. I don't Care who
cooked it and what is that place. I love my devotees and I will go and stay
only in the houses of my devotees. Forget for future, I will never stay in
Dharmushala or mandir or anywhere else. And now the whole food was there and
the people were coming to our house. There was no food. And then Shimaraji, as
soon as Maharaj saw my mother, he said, bring food for all of them. There was
no food. And he's saying bring food for all of them. And Maharaj was also not
there. He was also in Indhamshala. He was called immediately he came. But that
Maharaj was the cook was very fast. Within half an hour he prepared the food
for all of them, and they had the food. So the people were coming there and
they were talking to Maharaj about procession, about the program. Everything
was so good. Mahaji, oh, you were looking so beautiful. When you were sitting
on the throne and your clothes were shivering, you are wearing the yellow
clothes. Everything was looking so beautiful. Somebody was talking about the
devotees. Somebody was talking about the scene of the procession. In that way,
Shimaraji was just laughing and talking with the devotees over there. And thus
after that, what happened Even the 1516 scholars from Kashi with that Persha
came over there to see how they welcomed Shimaraji after having this exclusive
title of Jagad Guru. They also came there, and their food is very restricted.
Some of them were cooking themselves. So immediately my parents had to make
arrangement for them as well. So in that way, our house became like a thief
because 15 saints, top class scholars, they also came there. The devotees were
there. Shimaraji himself was there. So that mosphere was so good, so spiritual,
you can't imagine it was so good. So in that way, Shimaraji came over there and
the welcome with the procession was over. And after that Maraji gave a lecture
for 15 days. First time in Pratapkar, people heard the lecture of Shimaraji.
Before that, many people didn't know Shimaraji, and many of them were opposing
because Shimaraji was doing just Kirtan. And in Kirtan many people were crying
loudly. Some people were dancing all the time. It was beyond their
comprehension that what kind of Keertan is this And sometime the outsiders were
coming in the Kirtan. And after 09:00 the kirtan was starting eight. And around
10:00 or 1030, Shimaraji was finishing the Kirtan with the Arti. And when after
that, all the outsiders were going. And then Shimaraji was starting Kirtan
again. When Kirtan was, he was starting Keetan again. That time the light was
very dim. Sri Maharaj didn't like too much light. So the light used to be very
dim. And mostly the Vira Madri Ketan were going on in which people were crying.
So when they heard that when we leave after that, they put off the light, or if
the light is very dim, and again they do Keetan. And in that Ketan, people
dance or cry, whatever they do. So they took it another way that after we come
from there, they do Rashliela. There, the devotees were dancing in ecstasy, and
they were saying, after we come, they start Rashtliela there. So they were
trying to defame Sri Maharaji because Maharaj was very young, very beautiful,
and he was not giving any lecture. He was just doing Ketan. And the way of
Ketan, it was so deep. The Keetan of Maharaj was so deep that it was completely
beyond their comprehension. So many people in Pratapar used to say Maharaj,
Kirtaniya Babaji. They were saying, Kirtaniya Babaji. This saint does nothing
except Kirtan. He knows only Kirtan. But when that lecture went on for 15 days
and Maraji explained the whole philosophy, which is written in Ved, Bhagavad,
Gita, Ramayan, et cetera, from the aim of life to the practical form of Bhakti,
Sri Maharaj gave the lecture on entire philosophy. That time they heard and
they realized that he is the ocean of knowledge as well. After that, they
started respecting Maraji a lot. So in this way, the 15 day program went on
very nicely. And after that Shimaraji went to Allahabad, because Alabad people
were also requesting that we also want to welcome you as Jakartguru. We also
want to celebrate it. So when are you coming there So Maharaj said, after this
program I will come to Ilahabad. So the same things, whatever happened in
Pratapgara, the procession and the garlanding and the many mandalis of Keetan
and band, et cetera, everything came over there as well. And that was also a
most gorgeous procession. It is called Shobhayatra in Hindi. So that was done
over there and many people went. And it was a strict order of Shiji, especially
that any lady would not go. So ladies didn't go, only the men went over there.
When the procession from station going towards the markets in Allahabad, and it
had to finish at Muttigan, there was Sanghi, her name was Rampatiji. Rampatiji
was a very good devotee of Sri Maharaji, very high class, advanced devotee. She
was in geography at that time when the girls were not even going to the school,
she did in geography. And she was a professor of geography as well. So she was
living in a place which was called Mutigan in profession. The procession had to
stop over there because they had a very big lawn in front of their house. So it
had to finish over there. So when they came, after going in the entire city
with the procession, when they came Mutigan, the same thing happened. The
people were not stopping dancing and they were doing Keithan and dancing and
dancing for half an hour and in that way it went on up to 10:00 p.m. After that
they were said to go to their respective house and Shimahaji also went to get
rest. In the morning everybody was talking. One thing happened during the
procession that everybody was doing other kirtan and they were singing or they
were just walking. But there was an old man, he was sitting in a rickshaw and
he was going besides the chariot of Sri Maharaj there also they prepared a
chariot for Maharaj on that track. So the old man was going on ricksha besides
Sri Maharaji's chariot. And he was doing nothing at all. Looking towards
Maharaj constantly with great love. Everybody was noticing that this man looks
very weird. He is going on rickshaw constantly and looking towards Shrimaraji
only and nobody recognized him. Who was that Because he was very old. He was
having had the Chashma and everything. In the morning when they were discussing
about the beauty of the procession and many other things. Then pride. Shiji
said, Maharaji, one thing was very weird. I could not understand that. What was
that There was an old man and he was also walking all the time with your
chariot and looking towards you constantly. But when we came at Muttigan, he
disappeared. Mahaji was saying, who was that Then some ladies started laughing.
Mahaji, he was not an old man, she was Rampatiji. He was not a man, she was
Rampathiji. Rampathi, Rampati. You were there Yes, Maharaj, I was there. Why
Because Vidashji said, any lady cannot go. And this was not going to happen
ever again. So I had to see it. And that's why I had to go in this dress. I
went like a man. If I was dressed like a man, then I was allowed. That's why I
went over there. She was very jolly. Actually, once when Maharaj's throne came
to my house first time it was looking too beautiful. And Brahmapatiji was
there. She said to Maharaj, Maharaj, this throne is so beautiful. When you will
give lecture from this throne you will really look very beautiful. Mahaji said,
if somebody sits on the throne then he looks beautiful. He said, yes, it makes
some difference. You give lecture from an ordinary throne and you will give
lecture from this silver beautiful throne. Then you will look better. Naturally
your personality will look better. Then Mahaji said, if it is so, I want to see
you sit down here on the throne and I will see how beautiful you look. I will
see the change in your beauty. This is new. You did not sit so far on this
throne. How can I sit. Mai said, no, you have to because I have to see that
what change comes after sitting on the throne. Everybody was saying, Mahaji,
Mahaji, please, you sit down first. Then tell her to sit. Mahi said, no, she
will sit. FirsT she sat down over there. And then Maharaji said, Now you give a
lecture. Said Maharaj never gave any lecture. I don't know, I cannot give
lecture. Mahaji, you say something, you have to speak on any topic. Mahaji, I
cannot speak. No, you have to. Whatever comes in your mind, you just start
saying. She was very joy. She said, okay, if you are saying. If you're ordering
me to say anything, then I will say. And she sat down and she said, Churiya
Pur. Chiriyapur, Churiyapur, Churiyapur. She said constantly she started saying
Chiriyapur, Churiyapur. And everybody was laughing. So after a couple of
minutes, Mahaji said, Stop, it's okay now. And then everybody was laughing. Why
you people are laughing She gave such a good lecture. Lecture. She was saying
Churiyapuru, Churiyapur. Then Maharaji spoke on Churiyapuru for 45 minutes. He
said, she was indicating towards the deep philosophy that human body is so
transient. We think that we will stay here forever. But Chidiyapur, all the
bodies are Chiriyapur. So she was speaking on this philosophy. So Maharaji
explained it in 45 minutes. He spoke on Shuriyapur on 45 minutes. So this thing
happened special in the procession of Elahabad. In the same way Mahaji went to.
After that Shrimaji went to Agra and Bharatpur also. So many things like that
happened over there. And after finishing all these cities and giving lecture.
Because in Rahabad also after the procession, there is a very famous center of
Hindi. Hindi. Sahit Shimaraji gave lecture over there. And after that, towards
many places Maharaj was giving lecture. After that Maharaji went to Agra. And
then he went to Bharatpur as well. In Bharatpur, many Mahamdas were impressed
on Maharaj. And they started coming in the Satsang. After all these programs.
Shrimaraji said, Now I will go to Mahu. Mahu is the oldest place of JI where
the first spark of JI's mission was ignited. Maharaj's real Prachar, initial
Prachar started right from Mahu. The people of Mahu and their love and all.
What happened at the time of procession when Maharaj went as Jagadguru over
there is very significant, very interesting. But the time is over now. So I
will start this topic tomorrow. Mali Shrimas Satguru sarkariki jai larali la
kiji J Sri radhi.
