Yesterday I was talking about the convention of Chitrakut and you heard how Sri Maharaji distributed the pamphlets of the questions which were contradictory to each other. And all the saints scholars were confused. They were thinking there cannot be any answer of these questions. Sri Maharaj was reminding them every time, every day that the public is upset. They want to listen to the answer to these questions. I request all my honorable speakers to give an answer to these questions. But they had no answer. Then one of the scholar whose name was Neel Meghachary, he said on the phone that these questions are ridiculous. There is no answer to these questions. Kripala ji Maharaj has made this questionnaire only to insult us. But the most prominent scholar of that time, Karpatriji Maharaj came on the microphone and he cleverly said in very humble words that we should not say that the questionnaire is wrong or there is no answer to this question. Probably we are unable to give the answer to all these questions. But I am very sure that Sri Kripaluji Maharaj who prepared this questionnaire, he knows the answers of these questions for sure. So I will request him now to answer these questions. Shimaraji came immediately on the rise and he said that I am ready to obey your order to answer these questions. I am completely ready. But I am Swagata Dhyaksha. I am the President of Welcome Committee and it's not my right to sit on the Vyaskadi and give some speech. Of course, if the President of the convention, Raghavendra Sarkar, orders me, only then I can come to give the lecture. I can sit on the Vyaskati and then I will give the answer to all these questions. And Raghu Indra Sarkar, who was just a child in the form of Sri Ram, he came on the miC and he said, I permit him to speak. So all the crowd, they were so happy. The entire pavilion was echoed by the clappings and Jazakar, et cetera. Everybody was very happy. And now the saints and the scholars who were supposed to give the answer to those questions, they were also hapPy. Because when Karpakriji said like this, for Shrimaji it was a kind of challenge to Maharaj because he was thinking in his mind when we so senior scholars could not give the answer to these questions. Then this young man, just 32 years old, young man who never gave any speech, how can he give the answer to these questions He was 100% sure that he is also not able to give answer to these questions. Secondly, because Karpakriji himself was a great scholar. That's why he also thought that only that person can answer these questions. Who has the knowledge of all the scriptures equally. But it is hard to attain the knowledge, the thorough knowledge of one scripture only in the entire life. Then how can he attain the knowledge of all the scriptures in this age So it is quite impossible for him to answer these questions. So all the scholars were thinking that Kripalaji Maharaj challenged us. Now we are challenging him and he will also not be able to give the answer to these questions. Then our level will be equal, will not be insulted, we will not be defamed that we were given some questions and we could not answer. When he himself would not answer, then we can emphatically say that the questions were ambiguous, they were wrong questions. There was no base of those questions. But when Shrimji said, I am ready to answer the question, and Raghuinda Sarkar also gave permission to speak, Shimaraji said, without interrupting any other program, I will speak from 09:00 p.m.. Today. So 09:00 p.m. Was the time when everything was finishing every day. So Mahaji said, I will start speaking from 09:00 whoever wants to hear the answers to these questions may come at 09:00. So everybody was so eager to listen to Sri Maharaji because they were thinking in their mind that these are the difficult questions. All these scholars together could not give the answer to these questions. Let us see that how this person is going to give the answer to these questions. This is the main reason why they were very much eager to listen to Sri mAraji. It was hard for them to wait until 09:00. The pavilion was full by 08:00 and all the scholars, the saints, etc. Also took their place little earlier than 09:00. And Shimaraji came exact at 09:00 at the stage. When Shri Maharaji entered the stage, everybody was so happy. They gave a big ovation, saying when the whole pandal the tent was echoing with Jayakara of Sri Maharaji, everybody was clapping. They were looking very, very happy because they were going to get the answer to these questions. Today, all the saints sitting there, they were also happy that now we are going to test his knowledge. If he will speak anything which is not relevant to these questions, then we will raise a question immediately. They were ready for that. They were dreaming like that, that probably we will still have a chance to show that our knowledge is not less than him. So they were also happy. But as soon as Maharaji started his lecture, when he came and sat down on the Vyaskadi, as per his style, he sat down like this, closing his eyes in this Yogasana. And then he started singing Vandana, the slokes of Bhagavat. As soon as the music of the Bhagavad Shlok entered the ears of the audience, there was pin drop silence. That music itself was so soothing, so sweet. And the scholars were amazed to hear the preciseness of the pronunciation of the Bhagavad Shloka. They were thinking in their mind, we also recite Bhagavad Shlok every day. But we didn't know the Bhagavad shloks are so sweet, one can recite it so sweetly. They admitted it. And after that, Sri Maharaji addressed the public. He started Akirtan for three minutes. Bhajogirhara, Govinda, Gopala. When he started the Kirtan, he drowned Rajaras. It was so sweet. So he changed the entire atmosphere. The Kirtan of Sri Maharaji changed the whole atmosphere of that pavilion. Everybody was drowned in Bhaktiras. And then Sri Maharaji started his speech. He started his speech with the introduction of all the scriptures. VEd, Vedant, Bhagavat, Gita, Ramayan, Mimansa, Shastra, NyashastrA, Vaishestra, everything. He introduced all thy Scriptures. And then he also reconciled them. And he proved that Although it seems like all these Scriptures are talking about the Different Things, they are depriving about the Different Philosophies, but go in the Depth and See, all these Scriptures are giving the Same Message to us. He proved it first Day when He was giving the Introduction of all the Scriptures. It was amazing itself, the way he was giving the Introduction, Using the hymns of the Vedas, and the Quotations of the Same Scriptures as well. And the Most Amazing thing was that, that he gave the Introduction of all the Scriptures. Then he reconciled them, and then he reconciled them with Bhakti as well. So all the saints and the Scholars, they were stunned to see the knowledge of ShrimAraji. Now they realized that we were Thinking Is An Ordinary Being, But he is not an Ordinary Being. They had a Clue that he has the Thorough knowledge of all the Scriptures. Now they could understood A little bit about the real Introduction of Sri MAharAchi. And then their interest Created more to hear Him, because they were thinking that his lectures are really poignant, and we have to listen to all of them. Then MAhArAjI, next day, he talked about MIMansa, Charvak, etc. The Atheist Scriptures. And he also proved the authenticity of all these Scriptures as Scripture, because there was A doubt. If they are pessimistic, if they are Providing the Atheist Philosophy, Then what is the Use in Our life and why are they called A Scripture But ShimAraji proved that they Are Authentic as the Scripture. And he also explained the Significance of these Scriptures as well in our life. And Then Sri MAhAraji reconciled the Philosophies of All the previous Four JagadGurus. He presented the Philosophies of All the JagadGurus. Then he reconciled them. And then he also proved Then each Philosophy Is Authentic. There is no fault in any of these Philosophy. You cannot say this philosophy is higher or this philosophy is lower, this is greater, and this is not, not at all. All of them are equally important for us. And There IS a significance of all these Philosophy in our life when we are following the Path of Bhakti as well. In the last, SHimaRachi also proved the distinctiveness of Bhakti. So all the scholars heard the lectures of SriMAraji. And from the very first day they admired the amazing knowledge of all the Scriptures Equally, the Way of Presentation. And on top of that, they realized that he is speaking the philosophy of all the scriptures in such a simple language and in such a simple way that even a LAyman can understand it very well. THIs was the main Specialty of MAharaji's lecture. And whatever he was speaking, on every point, he was giving the References, the quotations of Ved Bhagavat, Gita, Ramayan, Vedant and other scriptures as well, According to Dhanit. But he was proving all the points with Veda, Bhavad, Gita and Ramayan for sure. So everybody was amazed on this knowledge of ShriMaraji. And they accepted, yes, there was answer, but we could not give the answer. There were many great scholars as well. They were totally surrendered to Shimaraji. One of them was Pandit Giridhar Ral Sharma, Shakshastri. He was also the Vice President of Kashi Vidyat Parishad. When he went back to Kashi, he told everyone about Maharaji, the Vidhwan, the scholars. They were listening to the Adoration of ShiMaraji from his mouth. But they could not believe it, because he was saying, he is only 32 years old and he have Thorough knowledge of all the Scriptures. He can quote anytime, from anywhere, for any Scripture. And His Pronunciation of Sanskrit is SO precise, you cannot even imagine. He reconciled all the Philosophies. It was beyond their comprehension. They said it is impossible. Something happened to our President. He had some delusion. Why is he talking like that For a young man, 32 years old, how can he memorize all the Scriptures He is completely wrong. But they couldn't say anything to him. They ignored. They just ignored him. So in this way, when Maharaj presented the answers to all those questions, the audience were very happy. And everybody was saying that this is the convention, and we feel that it was completely successful. We came here with the hope of attaining some knowledge. We came here with the hope that we will have the darshan of many Mahatmas. But we did not hope that we will get so much. We never imagined that we will get such a clear philosophy of all thy scriptures, and we will see such a great rascal saint over there. They said we had no hope of that type of thing, but we got everything over here. So after that convention, it was held in 1955, and after some time now, many people knew Sri Maraji and they wanted to invite Maharaj in many places, in different conventions. But Maharaj was not going anywhere, because he knew that they will speak something wrong, and I will reprove that, and then there will be some dispute. So Maharaji stopped going in any other convention. But next year, in the month of October, he was planning to have another convention. But before that, in January 1956, Shimaraji realized that I am supposed to have more conventions like this, and now I should go out more for the public lectures. If I am doing only Kirtan with some few intimate devotees, then the general public in Raj cannot be benefited, so have to give more lectures. So he wanted to give this kind of lecture in each city of India. But for that he had to have some special name, like he wanted to make some organization on the name of organization, he will propagate his philosophy, or he will propagate the lectures wherever he will do it. That's why Shrimah ji thought it is very important to propagate the philosophy of our scriptures more and more. That's why he established a new organization on the name of Akhila, Bharat Varshir Bhakti Yog Darshanik Mandal. Darshanik Mandal means Philosophical Society. Akila Bharatwarshi, All India. He established it on 21 January 1956. And then he publicized this also in the papers and the pamphlet, etc. That I am regret to say that although India is a spiritual country, but the people are getting more atheists, because in the lack of the knowledge regarding God through our scriptures. That's why I have established an organization on the name of Akhil Bharatvarji. Bhaktiyog Darshanik Mandal. And I want to establish centers of this philosophical organization in each and every city. One office is established over here in Kanpur in 55 Nayagai Gologdham. And I want you to come over there and give YOur suggestIons. If you have any question regarding the philosophy, if you have any question regarding any scripture, you come over there, get your answer, and if you have some suggestion, give that suggestion to us as well. And after that, Shrimaraji started giving lectures to the different places. And all the flyers were made on the name of Akhil Bharat Varshi Bhakti Yog Darshanik Mandal. In the same connection, ShiMaraji had a convention in Kanpur again. It was also again in October. This Convention started from 5 October to 19th October. It was very, very important, very significant convention like ChitrakOt Convention. ShiMaraji did not invite all the saints and Kathawajas and Rasmanli, et cetera. No. He invited only 20 Most Selected scholars and philosophers. And the subject was materialism versus spiritualism. And four subjects were given to all the speakers to speak. They had to speak from five to 19, and they had to speak only on four points. The first point, the eternal Relation and purest form of spiritualism and materialism. NumbeR two, MITChelL, an indispensable need of spiritualism and materialism. Number Three, final and Hope, some consequences of spiritualism and materialism. NUMbeR four, Undisputable and submissive practice of spiritualism and materialism. That the only four subjects were given to all the scholars to speak. The reason was that either all the saints, the spiritual faculties, they were just talking about spirituality, and they were totally condemning the materialism. Likewise, the material people, they were emphasizing on materialism only, and they were totally condemning their spiritualism. But Maharaji always used to say, Both spiritualism and materialism are indispensable for all the living beings. We cannot live without spiritualism, and we cannot live without materialism also. And the reason is very obvious that we are the combination of two things, spiritual and material. Our body is material, soul is spiritual. Without soul, the body cannot exist. Without body, the soul cannot exist. That's why both of them are indispensable for us. But there should be some balance, some understanding. So for that understanding that how in which sense spiritualism and materialism both are indispensable for us. So having this kind of pamphlet which was showing the topic and the subjects, four subjects of this convention, Shimaraji invited 20 most important philosophers, scholars of India. I don't remember the name of all of them. But Jagadguru Ramanja, Charji Neel Megha Chariji Jadayal Goyandaka, Hanman Prasad Poddar K. Munshi Governor of Uttar Pradesh, Sampuna Nandaji Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Guljari Lal Nanda, Pragya Chakshu, Harsharna Nanji Maharaj, Gangishwaranji Maharaj Giriji Maharaj Gopinath Ji Maharaj Akandanand. All the most prominent philosophers were invited over there. There were only 20. And this invitation was sent to Kashi Vidwat Parishat as well. With the request that you can also send any philosopher, any scholar in this convention. But when they heard about this, the scholars of Kashi Vidyat Parishad, then there were some scholars, they had a meeting. And they said after having such a grand victory in Chitrakur Samilan Kripalaji Maharaj has become egocentric. Because of that ego, he is doing another convention. Probably he wants to insult again in some way or the other, the other scholars. That's why we should give a lesson to him. Now see, after witnessing the divine knowledge of Srimaraji, they admitted that this much knowledge cannot be attained by a human being in one life. Still they are dreaming to defeat him. Still they have a sweet dream. One day we will defeat him. So they thought that we should give a lesson to him. But there was another scholar. He was the top post scholars amongst all the top scholars as well. He was on the top and his name was Raj Narayan Shukla. He was the founder of Shastrath Mahavidyalaya. And he was the principal of Kashi Vidya Peeth as well. And it was famous for him that he is an invincible scholar in Shastra. Nobody can win him. It was famous for him. So they decided to send him in that convention. Because only he could defeat. They thought in their mind that only he can defeat him. So let us send him now. So they talked to him and he was agreed to go. But they wrote to Sri Maharaj. So far no one is free in these dates. But later on, if there will be someone available, we'll definitely help you. These were the words, if somebody will be free, we will definitely help you. Shimaji did not pay any attention to that. And when the time came, then Rajnan Shukla Shakshastri, he reached the convention was going to be started from fifth and he reached Kanpur. This convention was going to be held in a very beautiful place of Kanpur, which is called Pulbar. So he reached Kanpur on fourth. And on fifth morning, when the convention was going to be started, he sent one of his followers to Sri Maharaji. And he said that Shastriji was coming back from somewhere. On the way he stopped in Kanpur. He said, still in Kanpur, if you want, he can come and help you. Again, they are using the same word, he can come and help you in this convention. Shri Maharaj said, he's most welcome. If he's here, he's most welcome. He can come in convention. So when Maharaj came in the evening, when Maharaj's lectures time was going to be started, then Maharaj came on the stage and he saw that Rajnaran Shuklaji was sitting in the first row with a pen and a copy. As soon as Maharaj looked towards him, he immediately guessed he is Rama Rajnara and Shukla. And he is sitting here with the copy and Pen. Just to prove everything, whatever I will speak. So Maharaji immediately announced that by the extreme grace of God, the top class scholar of India, Rajnara Shukla Shat Shastri, the founder of Shastrath Mahavidyalaya is over here. And I request him to inaugurate the convention of today with his speech. And he said, Today I came here only to listen to the lecture of Kripaluji Maharaj. Because I have heard lots of adoration about Kripaluji Maharaj. So I just am very much eager to hear his lecture. So please let me enjoy the lecture of Kupaluji Maharaj today. From tomorrow on I will be ready to speak. Okay. Then Maharaj started lecture and he took the pen and copy. And with firm resolution, whatever he will speak, doesn't matter what he speaks, whatever he would speak, I will approve it for sure with this firm resolution. He sat down there when Maharaji started speaking. Then he was listening to Shimaraji. Just like this whole time he was just looking towards Shrimaraji. Like this, he forgot to move his pen. And when Maharaj's lecture was finished, WBJI went next day, Shrimaji also resolved that today he will speak and I will also sit in front row with the copy and pen. And I will also prove all. Whatever he will speak, I will cut everything. So he also took the pen and copy and he sat down in the first row. And when he came, he himself said, he requested Maharaj that Maharaji, I want to speak today before you start your speech. Mahai said, Yes, I also want you to speak first. Then when he started speaking. Then Maharaj also could not write anything. He could not move his pen. Why Because he also spoke for 1 hour. But he spoke nothing except the adoration of Shrimaraji. All the time he was admiring Maharaj only. He did not speak even one word about the philosophy. You must be eager to know that. What was he saying about Maharaj I am giving the gist of his speech. It was published in all the local papers as well. In Kanpur. He said that although I heard a lot about Shrikipaluji Maharaj. And very eminent PhilOsophers were admiring his knowledge. And I was also informed that a 32 years old young man. Had a thorough knowledge of all the scriptures. His pronunciation is also excellent. His way of reconciling all the philosophy is also stunning. But I could not believe all that. I never believed it. Although I was eager to see him. After listening to so much about Shripaluji Maharaj. But I could not believe it. Because we are thy scholars of Kashi. We do not admit anyone as the scholar of all the scriptures. Before testing them from every point of view. We test them and then we challenge them for Shastrath. After that we admit someone that yes, he is the scholar of all the Scriptures. Otherwise we don't. But he said, when I heard him yesterday. I was spellbound to see the knowledge. His knowledge was amazing. His presentation was amazing. His language was so simple. That anybody could understand. The way he reconciled all these Scriptures with the Bhakti. That was very much amazing for me. And now I accept by heart that he is not an ordinary being. This kind of knowledge cannot be attained by a human being. Even in many recognized. These are the words of Rajnara and Shukla. He said, I have recognized him. He is a divine personality. And I request all the philosophers who are sitting here, all the scholars sitting over here. I request them to recognize him. I request the public of Kanpur to recognize him and have his benefit. Is not an ordinary being here. Sakshat Narayan. He announced it like this, emphatically. He said that we, the scholars of Kashi can give our head. But we cannot bend our head in front of any scholar so easily. But after listening to one lecture of Shikrapaluji Maharaj. I'm totally surrendered to him. I belong to Kashi Vidat Parishad. And many Vidhawan, many scholars of Kashi Vidat Parishad are sitting over here. They all accept that he is not a material being. He is a divine personality. He, Saksha Narayan, believe me, trust me, have benefit of Raji over here. I congratulate those who are in close contact of Raji, those who follow Raji. They are extremely fortunate people. Because he searched by the greatest philosophers and even by Brahma, Vishnu and Shankar as well recognize him. He said it again and again. And he also said that I wanted to take him to Kashi. Because Kashi is the Gurukul of India. All the scholars live in Kashi. So seeing his amazing knowledge, his divine knowledge, we wanted to be privileged with his association. That's why we requested him. Please. What are you doing here and there Please come. Please live in Kashi. But he said that in Kashi already so many scholars are living. I am needed there where there is no knowledge. I am supposed to give the knowledge to those who are totally devoid of knowledge. They are deluded. They need some true knowledge of our scriptures. That's why I am here. I am here and I will go everywhere. And after that, because when Rajna and Shastri admired him in front of 100,000 people like this Shimarachi became very famous in Kanpur. He knew that early in the morning thousands of people will come to see me. So early in the morning he went from there to Lucknow. In Lucknow, a very old devotee of Pratapgar. His name was Jagdesh Prashash Srivastava. He was living there. Shrimaraji directly went in his bungalow and he was staying over there. After that. When he was staying there, when he was going to leave from there he wrote on his harmonium. Jagad Guru Kripalu. When he wrote Jagadguru Kripalu. Then everybody was asking. The children were laughing and they were asking Mahaji, what did you write here Why did you write here Jagadguru Kripalu. Shimai said Gadhaitnavini Janta Yito Miraslina. Don't you know This is my real name, Mahaji, your name is not Jagadguru Kripalu. This is my real name. You will know later. I am Jagadguru Kripalu. He said like that and he wrote. And after that he went from there as well. After some times Mahaji came back to Pratapgar and he started having some invitation letters from Kashi Vidat Parisha. He wrote himself already that I Am Jagad Guru Kripalu. And then they started sending invitation to Maharaj. They were inviting him for his lectures. Giving this kind of clue or allurement that we want to invite you. We want to have some debates with you. And if you will be winner, if you will give answer to all our questions. Then you will be given the title of Jagadguru. Giving this kind of note, they were sending the invitations to Sri Maharaji. And Maharaji ignored two, three invitation. He didn't mind. They were writing and he didn't see. But when the fourth time the invitation came to Maharaji, then Mahaji was thinking and my father was sitting there. My father was a very, very dedicated devotee of Maharaj. Sri Mahaji used to say about him that Mahabhani is so much surrendered to me that if I say right now to burn out his house, he will do that and will stand with his family on the street. So he was very much dedicated to Maharaj. But he was always behaving with him like Maharaji is a child in front of him. So Shrimaraji asked him, Mahabhani, Kashi Vidyat Parishad is inviting me again and again for Shastrath. Should I go He said, what is Shastrath and why are they inviting Mahaji said, it is a kind of debate on scriptures. If I win this debate, then I will be given the title of Jagadguru. My father said, oh, then you should go. Because if you will get the title of Jagadguru then it will be great help in your prachar. It is good for you. Then Shivai said, but you know that this debate can go for one week, one month, ten month, one year, ten year. Nobody knows. It can go very long as well. Because these scholars of Kashi, they are very much egoistic. They cannot accept their defeat so easily. They can take very long. And each of them, there will be 500 scholars. And each of them will be the specialist, the profound scholar of one, one scripture. Individually, Shimaraji was showing like Mahaji was trying to scare him that I may also be defeated over there. Then my father say that, oh, which is so difficult and forget about it. And then Mahaji was laughing. So every day Mahaji was teasing him, see, Mahavani, should I go there My father said, have you seen your face in the mirror You will go. See. He will go for Shastrad. Sit down at home quietly. There's no need of going over there. Okay. And sometimes when he said, Mahabhari, they are inviting me again and again. I will be Jagaduru. I think I should go there. And Maharaj, my father was saying that there's no need. Sit down over here. You cannot win them. And sometimes he was showing the fear also it was really hilarious when Maharaj was showing that I am very much scared. They will definitely defeat me. Mahavane, my father was. No, no don't go. Then there's no need of going over there. You are okay like this without being Jayad Guru. But I will get lots of honor. Also. One day he said that. See you are asking me every day that you should go or not. Listen to my final answer. Now if you have to win this contest then you go. Otherwise sit down at home and do Keetan. He said how can I know that I will win or not Well you know everything. Don't try to pretend. I know you. Don't try to be an ocean. You know everything. It's in your hand. Either you will win or you will. I don't know what is your Leela. I don't want you to see that you are coming being defeated. Then Mahaj said oh then I don't know I will win or I will be defeated. So one day he said so let us play. The Shimaraji wrote on one slip will win jeetenge. And in the second slip haringe. I was the smallest one in the house. At that time I was called and Mahaji said pick up one slip. I picked up one slip and it was saying jeetenge, he will win. Then everybody was clapping and happy. My said oh then I can go because it is saying that I will win. Then my father no, once more do it once more. Then again the slips were written and then I picked up and again it came that jeeting gave he will win. Then my father said I don't trust you. You are playing some game. You're playing some trick. Let me make the slips. Then he made the slips. Three, four slips. And he told me to pick up one. Then out of four or five slips I picked up one. Then it was also saying jeetenge. Then it was decided. He said yes. Now it was decided that Maharaj will go for Shastra to Kashi Vidat Parishad. And then on the planning that how would he go when he will come back. Then what will we do, what function will be arranged etc. Etc. Many planning started. So what happened after that It was the fun of before accepting the invitation of Kashi Viddat Parshat. After this Shimaraji wrote them a letter that yes I am ready to come. Give me the dates when I have to come and I will come. So when it was decided finally that Maharaji will go for the Shastra everybody was happy and they started making many plans. So what plans were made and what happened afterwards will be described tomorrow. Bulia Shrimas Sadhguru Sarkariki J Lali laki J Sri Radhi. J Sri Radhi. J Sri Radhi.